Ndi-Anambra Germany (NAG), the umbrella organisation of all Anambra state unions in Germany, has congratulated Chukwuma Soludo, former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), on his victory in the Anambra governorship election. In a statement issued on Monday and signed by Chiagozie Madukife and Ugochukwu Okolo, national coordinators of the association, NAG expressed confidence that Soludo will provide a better standard of living for the people. NAG advised all those who contested in the election to support Soludo for sustainable development in Anambra. “The campaign has come and gone, it’s now time for healing and governance. In every civilised society, no one takes personally what is said during campaigns. So, Soludo should look forward to uniting Ndi Anambra and building an all-inclusive government,” the statement reads. “You are called to duty at a time of profound challenges and tremendous opportunities for our great state. All Anambra indigenes wherever they reside have an obligation at this moment in history to take active measures, guided by considerations of the best interests of our people, to overcome these challenges and provide conditions for our citizens to thrive. “We, Ndi-Anambra Germany (NAG), are more than willing to offer our support and services in any capacity to reach the desired result and we offer our partnership herewith. “You have in your professional life shown a tremendous capacity for effectiveness; you have demonstrated personal integrity and have already accomplished much more than most. We are therefore very confident that you will deliver in this new role and your service will serve to elevate the people of Anambra State and make Anambra the pride of all and truly the light of the nation “God in His infinity mercy keeps guiding, guarding, and giving you and all members of your incoming administration the required strength and wisdom to create opportunities to improve the quality of life in Anambra State. “We wish you success and assure you of the support and the contributions of Ndi Anambra in Germany towards this noble quest.”