The Super Eagles of Nigeria squeezed through to the next stage of the Qatar 2022 FIFA World Cup qualifiers after an uninspiring 1-1 draw with Cape Verde in Lagos. Victor Osimhen scored and the defence looked lethargic as Gernot Rohr, who is managing a record-breaking 54th game with the Super Eagles ahead of the late Shuaibu Amodu, looked lost on the touchline. TheCable takes a look at players’ performance as the Eagles avoided defeat and disaster while failing to inspire. Maduka Okoye (4/10): The 22-year-old goalkeeper did not have much to do the entire match and could do nothing as the visitors scored. The Sparta Rotterdam number one was, however, on alert to smother the ball on several occasions in the second half. Leon Balogun (4/10): Lacks pace and it was evident throughout even though the visitors could not capitalise on his hesitance. He was also booked for a bad tackle late on after his lack of pace was exploited. Not one of his best days. William Troost-Ekong (5/10): The national team captain looks sturdy but does not play with the same verve. He was at fault for Cape Verde’s goal, as he failed to mark his man from a corner kick. He did not look in charge of the three-man defence. A better team would have punished the several lapses in communication and lack of coordination in the defence. Jamilu Collins (5/10): Defensively solid and put in two dangerous crosses. Much of Cape Verde’s attack went through his wing but the 27-year-old Paderborn full-back was always on hand to do his tasks. Chidozie Awaziem (5/10): Played as center-back and was not assured in his duties despite a few questions asked of him. His long throw-ins were also not utilised by his colleagues who looked shorn of ideas. Moses Simon (5/10): Full of running from the winger who played wing-back and was mostly in attacking positions. His corners presented opportunities not capitalised as he terrorised with crosses. Saw a cross-cum-shot tipped over. Wilfred Ndidi (6/10): Went about winning balls in midfield as he has come to be known, picked up a booking early in the first half but it did not deter him. His blocks inside the box as Cape Verde attacked in the dying minutes proved vital for the Eagles. Joe Aribo (5/10): Aribo was combative and unspectacular as he showed some understanding with Ndidi in central midfield. Made late runs, faded, and did not offer anything in the second half until his substitution. Alex Iwobi (4/10): Full of running with the ball especially in the first half but had few positives to show from the lung-bursting runs. His passing was not up to the standard of the playmaking role he was handed, a role he has somehow forgotten how to play. Offered nothing in the second half. Odion Ighalo (3/10): Wasted a glorious opportunity that would have seen Nigeria retake the lead, failing to make contact with the goal gapping. The 32-year-old Al-Shabab striker also headed wide when well placed minutes later. Absent in the second half and was duly substituted. Not the type of return Rohr or the former Man United striker would have envisaged with the raucous Lagos crowd waiting. Victor Osimhen (7/10): The Napoli striker was everywhere in attack, drawing fouls and trying to make things happen. Scored in the second minute — his 10th goal in 19 caps —  thanks to his striker’s instinct. The 22-year-old also created openings for others, with Ighalo guilty of missing one. The only light and best player in a rather poor match. SUBSTITUTES Shehu Abdullahi: Came on for Simon and offered some defensive solidity. Kelechi Iheanacho: A silent cameo from the Leicester City forward who came on for Ighalo. Frank Onyeka: Not much time to influence the match.