Farida Waziri, a former chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), has urged the ministers to talk more about the projects they are undertaking. The former EFCC boss said she was not aware of the Warri-Itakpe standard gauge line until one of her relatives travelled on it. Speaking on Sunday at the Nigeria International Partnership Forum in France, Waziri recounted how excited she was when “Bendel Garri’’ was sent to her in Abuja from Warri by rail. She said President Muhammadu Buhari deserves commendation for making the Warri-Itakpe standard gauge line come alive. “One of my relations came to visit me from Warri and I said how did you come with garri and all these stuff?” she said. “She said she spent N3,000 to take a train from Warri to Itakpe in Kogi and then came to Abuja. “I didn’t even know that there was such a train service.” Waziri said Buhari’s administration has done a lot on infrastructural development which needs to be showcased more — locally and internationally “From what they have said here today, I know the milestones the Buhari administration has recorded in terms of infrastructural development,” she said. “A lot has been achieved and if they speak more, Nigerians will know more and members of the international community who love Nigeria and want to invest in Nigeria will be more assertive in coming to Nigeria. “A lot of bad news about kidnapping, banditry and insurgency is what people hear, but the narrative must change. “This event has been very informative and educative. What the ministers here have said on the infrastructural development and the agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari are very impressive. “I am glad I found time to come. I was invited, but I was in London to see my kids and I travelled by Eurotunnel not to miss it and I am glad I did because the event is very informative. “I am a Nigerian living in Nigeria, but I now know more. I wish the ministers will be talking more about what they are doing in their respective ministries.” Buhari inaugurated the 326-kilometre Itakpe-Warri rail line in September 2020.