The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) says it has seized 12,385 kilograms of Indian hemp smuggled into Lagos from the waterways. In a statement on Sunday, Femi Babafemi, director, media and advocacy, described the drug as a strong variant of Indian hemp. Babafemi said that 12,385 pellets of Indian hemp were brought in through the Atlantic Ocean and ferried in boats to the Eko Atlantic Beach, Victoria Island. He stated that more than 50 narcotic officers stormed the beach on Saturday, November 27, and recovered the consignments along with two trucks, and arrested three suspects. Those arrested are Abdulkadri Zakari, 24, Ka’abu Sausu, 45, and Lawrence Adie, 27. In another development, Babafemi stated that a 70-year-old woman, Beatrice Aigbedion was among the suspects arrested at Irrua, Edo, in connection with the seizure of more than 5,000 kilograms of assorted illicit drugs. Similarly, Gabriel Akioya and Isa Salihu were arrested on November 25 at Irrua, Esan central LGA of Edo with various quantities of Codeine, Tramadol, Swinol, and Rohypnol. “After days of surveillance, NDLEA operatives on Wednesday, Nov. 24 stormed a warehouse at Uhiere, Ovia North East Local Government Area of Edo, where they recovered 4,261.5kg of Indian hemp and arrested a suspect, Ikong Stanley,” Babafemi said. “On Tuesday, Nov. 23, 1,240kg of Indian hemp was also seized at a warehouse in Uzebba, in Owan West Local Government Area of Edo. “At the point of her arrest last Wednesday, Aigbedion was caught with different quantities of Codeine cough syrup, Swinol, and Rohypnol. “Another dealer, Joseph Onyemaechi, 50, was also nabbed at Ikpoba Okha, Upper Sakpoba, Benin City, on Friday with different types of psychotropic substances weighing 2.055kg.” He said the agency operatives raided Hampton Towers and Spa Hotel, Okpanam Road, where Dobedient Etumudor and Thompson Chukwuemeka were also arrested with different quantities of psychoactive substances. He added that another drug dealer, Emeka Ben, was caught with 4.7 grams of Methamphetamine on Asaba-Ibusa Road in Delta. “Other suspects arrested on Thursday, November 25, in the state for dealing in Meth, Indian hemp, cocaine, and heroin were Ifeanyi Odibe, Uche Onwurah, and Justice Obika. “In Kano, a drug dealer, Alhaji Bukar Malan Abdu, was arrested, and 143 kilograms of Indian hemp recovered from him while 466kg of the same drug was seized in the home of one Bashir Shuaibu, an indigene of Edo resident in Kano. “On Thursday, November 25, a drug dealer in Maiduguri, Chima Obi, was arrested in a follow-up operation.” Babafemi said Buba Marwa, NDLEA chairman, has charged officers to go after drug criminals.