The tripartite committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC), on Tuesday, held a meeting to deliberate on the decision by the national assembly to approve only direct primary for political parties across the country. The meeting held at the state house conference centre (old banquet hall), Abuja. The committee, which was set up by President Muhammadu Buhari in August 2020 to resolve disagreements in the ruling party, was presided over by Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo. During the meeting, some members of the committee insisted that direct primary was the way to go, arguing that it had been working for the electorate while others disagreed. TheCable had reported that the national assembly, earlier on Tuesday, approved the conference committee report on the electoral act amendment bill. The electoral bill was passed by the lower chamber in July — after the PDP caucus staged a walkout. In the conference committee report, both chambers of the national assembly approved that all political parties must use the direct primary mode in picking candidates. Speaking with state house correspondents after the meeting, Adamu Aleiro, a former governor of Kebbi state, said direct primary for parties is the best for the country. On his part, Yahaya Bello, governor of Kogi, said the disagreement in some quarters stemmed from the fear of lack of an alternative provision in case the direct primaries fail. “I don’t think any governor or anybody whosoever, as far as APC is concerned, is afraid or has any reservations as far as our participation is concerned,” Bello said. “The only concern is the implication of having only one option. In case an option fails what happens?” On if the decision to insert direct primary in the electoral bill can still be changed, he said the party cannot meddle in the affairs of the legislature. “In their own wisdom, nobody is going to meddle into affairs of the legislature. So, whatever decision they have taken, if it is in the interest of the people, so be it. Whatever the legislature will pass and is acceptable by the executive, then everybody will have to buy in and make sure it works. “It is yet to be signed into law. So, we’re waiting for President Muhammadu Buhari. Once it’s signed into law, then we will make sure it works. If he does not, then it will be returned to the national assembly or whatever action that can be taken.”