Ahmad Lawan, president of the senate, says political leaders should learn from the example of former President Goodluck Jonathan on promoting unity in the country. Lawan said this on Friday at the 2021 democracy dialogue organised by the Goodluck Jonathan Foundation, which had the theme: ‘Democracy and Unity of the State’. Speaking on the theme, the senate president said political leaders should be committed to ensuring peace and unity in the country. “When political leaders allow for suspicion between and among themselves, the outcome is that those at the grassroots or the ethnic nationalities will behave the same way,” he said. According to him, Nigeria needs leaders that will promote a sense of belonging among all people. He also said Jonathan had shown himself to be a leader who is interested in development of the country. “There are many of us here who are not of the PDP. That, to me, is a clear testimony of one fact that you are a unifier,” NAN quoted him as saying. “We believe that you mean well for this country and it is so. Those who believe in that will always identify with you and your cause. “The political class, as far as I am concerned, is a clan. It doesn’t matter which political party you belong to. What is important is that we continue to unite, engage to make this country better. “It doesn’t matter who is in office because we have to have a country in the first place before elections would be conducted. “We can achieve that if we continue to have this kind of leadership; whether in office or out of office. We have that responsibility; that obligation to give Nigerians the sense of belonging. Citizens, wherever they are, whatever they are, and wherever they are choose to be in this country.” Speaking at the event, Boss Mustapha, secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), said he believes that the discussions at the dialogue which focus on democracy in Africa will engender new ways of addressing issues. “The operators of the institutions that facilitate the practice of democracy must be strengthened, deepened and be given an opportunity to ventilate,” he added. The SGF also commended Jonathan for purposeful leadership and for his efforts at improving democratic practices in Africa.