Nigeria on Monday recorded 36 cases of COVID-19. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Tuesday. Israel starts vaccination campaign for young children Israel on Monday started vaccinating children aged 5-to-11-year-olds with the Pfizer-BioNtech COVID-19 vaccine. A fourth wave of infections hit Isreal in June but began subsiding in September. However, Isreal has seen a rise in the number of daily COVID cases in recent weeks and hopes to beat the wave by vaccinating children. “All these phenomena can be severe and we want to prevent them,” Nitzan Horowitz, health minister, said. FG to host summit on developing strategies to end COVID pandemic The federal government says it will host a national summit aimed at ending the COVID pandemic by December 2022. Mukhtar Mohammed, national incident manager, presidential steering committee (PSC) on COVID-19, announced this on Monday at the bi-weekly national briefing on COVID in Abuja. The summit, which is also designed to come up with recommendations for building back the country’s health system in order to equip it to better respond to future threats, will take place from December 6 to 8, 2021. The theme of the summit is ‘Pushing through the Last Mile to End the Pandemic and Build Back Better’. EU to harmonise validity period of vaccination certificate The European Commission says it is working to harmonise the duration of the validity of the COVID-19 vaccination certificate, including the effects of booster shots in the continent. Stella Kyriakides, European Commissioner for health and food safety, said on Monday amid rising COVID cases in some parts of Europe. “I fully agree with the urgency, and this is why the European Commission is working with the utmost urgency to strengthen the coordination of free movement, including the length of validity and the role of boosters in the vaccination campaign,” Kyriakides said. “We are determined to reverse the current wave…and we are also aware that we need to give clear, coherent messages to citizens.” NCDC asks corps members to get vaccinated against COVID to prevent outbreaks in camps Ifedayo Adetifa, director-general of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), has asked corps members to take advantage of the federal government COVID-19  mass vaccination campaign. Adetifa said this will prevent the outbreak of infections in the orientation camps across the country. “Corps members are encouraged to leverage on the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) mass vaccination campaign to get vaccinated as a personal and collective responsibility,” he said. “It is important to avoid outbreaks in orientation camps and prevent a fourth wave of #COVID19 especially during the festive period.” Nigeria records 36 COVID infections The NCDC says 36 fresh COVID-19 infections have been reported across the country. The agency said the cases were reported in seven states and the federal capital territory (FCT). The states with the new infections are Lagos (21), Kano (4), FCT (3), Gombe (3), Niger (2), while Bauchi, Plateau and Rivers reported one case each. The NCDC said 260 people were discharged out of which 240 are recoveries from the FCT. No fatalities were recorded on Monday as the death figure stands at 2,974. Nigeria now has 213,625 confirmed cases with 206,778 recoveries. 