Rotimi Akeredolu, governor of Ondo, has appointed Babajide Akeredolu, his son, as the director-general of the state’s performance and project implementation monitoring unit (PPIMU). According to a statement signed by Donald Ojogo, Ondo commissioner for information, the  governor also forwarded the names of 14 commissioner nominees to the house of assembly for screening and confirmation. “Ondo State Governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, has nominated 14 new commissioners-designate and seven special advisers,” the statement reads. “In the same vein, the governor appointed Mr. Babajide Akeredolu as the Director General, Performance and Project Implementation Monitoring Unit (PPIMU). “All nominated/appointed persons will be sworn in at a date to be announced later after the necessary legislative processes. Mr Governor wishes all nominated persons the best of luck. “The names of the nominees, especially the position of commissioner, will be forwarded to the House of Assembly for screening, clearance and confirmation.” The commissioner nominees are Bamidele Ademola Olateju (Akoko south-east), Adefarati Gboyega (Akoko south-west), Olotu Fatai (Akoko north-east), Julianah Oshadahun (Akoko north-west), Dele Ologun (Akure north), Sunday Adekunle (Idanre) and Razaq Obe (Ifedore). Others are Banji Awolowo Ajaka (Ilaje), Pastor Emmanuel Igbasan (Irele), Yetunde Adeyanju (Odigbo), Femi Agagu (Okitipupa), Akinlosotu (Ondo east), Omolola Fagbemi (Ondo west) and Olayato Aribo (Ose) Those nominated for the position of special advisers are Victor Ategbole, Wunmi Egbayelo Ilawole, Tobi Ogunleye Felix, Ajibayo Adeyeye, Olamide Falana, Francis Adedayo Faduyile and Oyeniyi Oseni. Babajide’s appointment comes days after the state government said it has uncovered a plot to smear the image of the governor and his immediate family members. The state commissioner for information and orientation had said the plot involves an allegation that Akeredolu and his son are attempting to take over the management of the forest reserves so as to corner the resources for personal gains.