Barack Obama, former US president, says youths should use their influence to seek accountability from politicians on addressing the effects of climate change. Addressing youths on Monday at the ongoing climate change conference in Glasgow (COP26), Obama said young people have the power to make companies responsive to the challenges associated with climate change. He said youths need to teach companies that they risk losing customers if they are not on the right side of the issue. “The second way you can have an impact on climate change is by pressuring companies to do the right thing. Members of your generations have already shown that you are not willing to pay for products that are not responsible and responsive to the climate challenge, and that you are also willing to avoid those companies that are actually making climate change worse,” he said “And that’s a message that CEOs are will learn to understand. Companies are starting to figure out that becoming more energy efficient is good for the bottom line because they spend less on energy, but you also have the opportunity to teach them that by getting serious about climate change, they have the opportunity of winning loyal customers and employees and they conversely will lose customers and top flying employees if they are not on the right side of the issue. That’s part of your power; you need to use it. “If older folks won’t listen, they need to get out of the way. There are plenty of things that each and everyone of you young people can do that does not require devoting your entire life to the course but will make a real difference. “The first and most important thing to do is, if you are of age, to vote the issue; vote like your life depends on it because it does. I recognise that young people may be cynical about politics, but the cold hard fact is we would not have more ambitious climate plans coming out of government unless governments feel some pressure from voters. “Many young people are now starting to realise that they can make their interest known if they have the opportunity to vote. That’s the kind of things that make politicians sit up and take note; this is part of your power that you have to use.” He also said the older generation may not be as knowledgeable about the impacts of climate change, and as such, young people need to help educate parents, teachers and employees to make them more open-minded about tackling the issue.