Atiku Bagudu, chairman of Progressives Governors Forum (PGF), says President Muhammadu Buhari has endorsed February 2022 for the All Progressives Congress (APC) national convention. Speaking with journalists on Monday after he and other APC governors held a meeting with Buhari at the presidential villa, Bagudu said February was suggested to the president, because four states have not held congresses. “I also explained yesterday that the Progressive Governors Forum discussed the issue of national convention of the party and they mandated us to come and discuss with the president as the party’s leader to give the input of the governors so that the party and the president will consider,” NAN quoted the Kebbi governor as saying. “Part of the inputs we got yesterday was that we still have four states which are in the process of completing their congresses like Anambra,  understandably because of the recent gubernatorial election; Zamfara and two others, because of logistic challenges and then, Christmas is around the corner and early January, we will be very busy with Ekiti. “So, the governors, based on all these, suggested that the party and the president should graciously consider February and the president is favourably disposed to the suggestion.” On his part, Mai Mala Buni, national chairman of the APC caretaker committee, said Nigerians should expect a more united party after the convention is held. “The Progressive Governors Forum, after their meeting, suggested February to the party and the president has concurred. So, we are going ahead to plan for the convention in February,” Buni said. “Nigerians should expect more unity and progress as a result of the forthcoming convention.” Buni denied allegations that he is delaying the convention to extend his tenure as chairman. “Am I a jobless person who is always trying to extend his tenure? To do what? I have my primary responsibility as a governor to go back to my state and carry out my primary responsibility,” he said. “What I am here to do is ad hoc and of course to reposition the party and that is exactly what we have been able to achieve.”