Aisha Buhari, first lady of Nigeria, has been elected as the ninth president of the African First Ladies Peace Mission (AFLPM). She was elected on Monday at the ninth general assembly of the AFLPM held in Abuja. According to a statement by Femi Adesina, presidential spokesman, in her acceptance speech, Aisha Buhari appreciated her colleagues for believing in her, and expressed the commitment of the AFLPM to contributing to meaningful growth in Africa. ”With all sense of humility, I accept my election as the incoming 9th president of the African First Ladies Peace Mission,” she said. ”I want to sincerely thank all my colleagues for your continuous support and understanding and for entrusting me with this great responsibility. ”I pledge to execute my responsibility with total commitment and in accordance to the missions laid down regulations. ”Your excellences, gentlemen of the press, as you are aware, the task before us is a collective commitment, hence the cooperation of all us is needed for the overall success of the African First Ladies Peace Mission. ”On my own part, I assure you that I will discharge the affairs of my office with honesty, dedication and inclusivity. ”My dear colleagues, as we conclude this summit, let history guide us to ensure that the Africa we bequeath to our children today is better than the one we inherited. ”Let us commit ourselves to working together towards achieving a glorious destiny for all Africans.” On his part, President Muhammadu Buhari congratulated the first lady and pledged his support to the objectives of the group on promoting peace and development across Africa. While commenting on security, he urged stakeholders to support the women in their mission to ensure peace on the continent. “The activities of insurgents and bandits have led to more widespread displacement and poverty. It is not in doubt that women and children are the worst affected by the breakdown of peace,” he said. “Therefore, as mothers, I believe you are in a better position to drive the processes of peace and actions where necessary. Buhari also congratulated the first lady on the acquisition of a piece of land in Abuja on behalf of her colleagues for the development of a secretariat for the AFLPM. ”It gladdens my heart to know that when completed the secretariat will serve several purposes including creating employment opportunities as well as generating income for sustainability,” he said.