Aminu Tambuwal, governor of Sokoto, has signed into law the child protection bill to protect children in the state. Rotimi Olawale, executive director of YouthHubAfrica, disclosed this in a statement on Monday. Olawale expressed satisfaction over the signing of the child protection bill by the state government after years of advocacy by YouthHubAfrica and other organisations. The Child Right Act now ‘The Child Protection Bill’ was enacted in 2003 by former President Olusegun Obasanjo to offer protection to the rights of Nigerian children. Out of the 36 states of the federation, Sokoto is the 27th to have signed the child protection bill. Other states yet to domesticate the bill include, Kano, Katsina, Jigawa, Zamfara, Bauchi, Yobe, Gombe, Borno and Adamawa. Speaking on the relevance of the bill, the director explained it will provide protection to children, address education challenges and tackle related issues experienced by the girl child. “YouthHubAfrica and members of the civil society coalition congratulates the Sokoto state government on the passage of the ‘Child Protection Bill’ into law in the state. This is a remarkable step.in the right direction as the bill was signed into law by the executive governor if Sokoto state Rt. Him Aminu Waziri Tambuwal few hours ago,” the statement reads. “Following continuous and relentless advocacy efforts by YouthHubAfrica, civil society organisations and concerned citizens, the passage of the ‘Child Right Bill’ whose nomenclature was changed to the ‘Child Protection Bill’ by the state house of assembly is requisite and laudable step towards the domestication of the Child Right Act, as opted by the federal republic of Nigeria in 2003. “The child protection bill which was just signed into law a few hours ago by the executive governor will safeguard the rights and privileges of every Nigerian child, ensure parents and guardians fulfill their obligation to protect the child, prioritise access to education especially for the girl-child amongst several other demands. “YouthHubAfrica is delighted to have worked with partners, civil society organisations, non-state actors, stakeholders, and concerned citizens in the last 4 years to advocate for the passage of the child right act into law in Sokoto state. We further applaud his excellency, the passage of the bill into law. The ‘Child Protection Bill’ has placed Sokoto state as the 27th state to have taken a worthy step, thereby setting the pace for other states yet to pass the Child Right Bill into law to follow suit.” He congratulated the governor of Sokoto and the people of the state for adopting the law.    