The Defence Headquarters (DHQ) says troops of operation Hadin Kai killed 90 insurgents in the north-east within the past two weeks. Speaking on Thursday at a media briefing in Abuja, Bernard Onyeuko, acting DHQ spokesman, said an unconfirmed number of insurgents were killed in air strikes on November 12 in Baga, near the Lake Chad. The spokesman also said the troops, on November 13, repelled an attack at Askira-Uba in Borno, leading to killing of over 50 insurgents and destruction of several combat equipment, such as gun trucks and other weapons. “In the course of these operations, no fewer than 90 terrorists were neutralised and 21 of them arrested. Also, 98 assorted weapons, including AK-47 rifles and 2,589 rounds of ammunitions were recovered within the period,” he said. “Additionally, seven kidnapped civilians were rescued, while a total of 996 BHT elements and their families comprising 203 adult males, 302 adult females and 491 children surrendered to own troops at different locations in Borno state. “All recovered items have been handed appropriately and rescued persons reunited with their families, while arrested and surrendered terrorists have been profiled and handed over to appropriate authorities for further action.” In a related development, Onyeuko said in the north-west and north-central, 128 bandits were killed within the period under review. “Cumulatively, a total of 12 criminal elements were arrested; 118 armed bandits were neutralised; five kidnapped civilians were rescued; while 26 assorted arms and 194rounds of 7.62mm ammunitions were recovered within the period,” he said, while speaking on activities under operation Hadarin Daji in the north-west For operation Safe Haven, “38 victims of armed bandits’ attacks and kidnap incidents were rescued and 45 criminal elements arrested, while 3 were neutralised within the period”. Meanwhile, under operation Whirl Stroke in the north-central, “a total of seven armed bandits were arrested and five kidnapped civilians were rescued as well as seven armed bandits killed in the course of the operations”.