Vice President Yemi Osinbajo says the late Sani Dangote, group vice-president of Dangote Industries Limited, was instrumental to the agricultural policies of the federal government. Sani, the younger brother of Aliko Dangote, Africa’s richest man, died on Sunday at a US hospital. The deceased was interred on Wednesday at the family cemetery in Koki quarters of Kano Metrolink. During a condolence visit to the family, the vice-president said the deceased collaborated with the government on many policies. He said: “Sani was a good friend of mine and somebody who I consider a collaborator and was very instrumental in our tomato policy and several other agricultural policies and was part of government policies in so many ways. “It was a big shock for us to hear that he had passed on. “I want to send my own personal condolences to you and to all members of the family, this is a very very sad event. But I know that the Almighty God will comfort the family. “He has left behind a very excellent legacy and he was a man who was committed to his country, committed to his state and committed to his people. I hope that the Almighty God will comfort all of us. “I pray that we all will live long and we live well and that this country of ours will live well and all will be well with us.” Responding to the condolence message on behalf of the family, Aliko Dangote said: “I would like to thank you for coming to condole with the family. We appreciate this. “Despite your heavy schedule, you were able to come over to console us. Your Excellency, I want to thank you on my behalf and on behalf of all the Dangote family.” The deceased was the chairman of Dansa Holdings Ltd and was formerly a non-executive director at NASCON Allied Industries Plc. An established businessman and serial investor, Sani Dangote had interests in the manufacturing, agriculture, banking, and oil services sectors. He was on the board of at least 14 companies including Nigerian Textile Mills Plc, Nutra Sweet Limited, Gum Arabic Limited, and Dangote Textile Mills Limited.