Adenike Aloba, a media development professional, has been appointed by The Interactive, the parent company of Dataphyte Nigeria, as programme director. The Interactive, in a recent statement, said Aloba will double as the managing editor of Dataphyte to provide leadership for the day-to-day operations of the organisation. Adenike’s appointment comes at a perfect time as the organisation consolidates on its successes and products launched in the first two years of its existence, the organisation said. Commenting on the appointment, Joshua Olufemi, founder of Dataphyte, said Adenike possesses a breadth of knowledge and skills that bring effective consequence to her work. “Beyond her knowledge and experience, Adenike’s appointment is a win for the women in media as she emerges as the first female managing editor of a Data Journalism platform in the whole of Africa,” Olufemi said. “Adenike has extensive competence and experience in Media Development, People, Process and Project Management and Strategic Communications. Over the years she has delivered media solutions via the development and execution of cut-through-the-clutter programs/projects that generate the kind of impact that is necessary and in fact important for the issue of focus thus creating contemporary yet culturally conscious media products; combining effective communication and media strategies to great effect. “She is also an expert trainer and facilitator with subject matter expertise and a style of teaching that draws in trainees/audience in a way that aids assimilation and comprehension. “Adenike holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Mass Communication from the University of Lagos, and was previously a Project Manager at Impact Pointe Consultancy Limited, a social enterprise, connecting private sector actors and actions to Sustainable Development Goals. Before this role, she was Program Manager with the Premium Times Centre for Investigative Journalism where she led the Humanitarian Program and the Media Monitoring Project. In her role at the PTCIJ, she combined data-driven research with creating intelligence and resources that can help the media understand and shape narratives on Humanitarian issues.”