Pauline Tallen, minister of women affairs, has called for improved justice delivery for victims of gender-based violence. Speaking on Thursday at a media briefing to kick off the 16 days of activism against gender-based violence, she said the UN report from 13 countries since the COVID-19 pandemic has revealed two in three women who have suffered any form of violence are more prone to experiencing food insecurity. According to Tallen, it is unacceptable that less than one percent of perpetrators of gender-based violence have been convicted. “As of 24th of November, 2021, the total number of cases reported is 5,204 of which 3,125 survivors are demanding justice and only 33 perpetrators have so far been convicted, representing 0.51 percent,” she said. “The fatal cases are 160, closed cases 231, while open cases (cases pending in court) are 972. This trend is unacceptable. And we will all intensify efforts with the federal minister of justice to ensure justice for victims and survivors. “Due to the effectiveness of this medium in providing real-time data, we will upscale the project to cover the remaining states. “These figures are mirrored in Nigeria, with 30 percent of girls and women aged between 15 and 49 reported to have experienced sexual abuse. Insurgency and protracted conflict have only served to worsen the occurrence of GBV in the north-east. “Harmful practices such as child marriage are prevalent in Nigeria, with 43 percent of girls married before the age of 18, while 20 percent of women aged 15 to 49 have undergone FGM. “The ministry of justice is making efforts. We have initiated the process of establishing special courts for these vulnerable groups. In fact, I wanted this press conference to be held in the conference hall of the ministry of justice, to ensure that we make the justice system work. He [minister of justice] would have been here but he sent his apologies because he is attending to another assignment. “He is the chairman of the inter-ministerial committee set up by Mr president. We will not allow them to have their breathing space until the justice system becomes more proactive in addressing this huge number that is left in our courts. Justice delayed is justice denied, and that is unacceptable.” The campaign with the theme, ‘Orange the World, End Violence against Women Now’, was organised by the ministry of women affairs, British Council, the UN Women and the European Union in Abuja. The gender-based violence campaign is an annual international movement that advocates the elimination of issues on sexual assault against women. It will run for 16 days until December 10, when the UN marks the ‘Human Rights Day’.