The Katsina state government says its “containment order” issued in August has reduced banditry, kidnapping and other crimes in the state. Aminu Masari, the state governor, had issued an executive order banning the movement of cattle from the state to other parts of the country effective August 31. He also ordered the closure of some roads and banned the sale of petrol in jerrycans at filling stations. Masari said the measures are to contain the security challenges bedevilling the state. Addressing journalists on Thursday, Mustapha Inuwa, secretary to the government of the state, said Katsina has seen a reduction in the number of kidnap incidents and banditry owing to the implementation of the executive order. This is despite the 61 kidnap incidents involving 201 victims, and 56 banditry incidents resulting in 83 deaths and 58 injuries, which were recorded after the executive order was issued. “In July and August, there were 173 reported kidnap incidents affecting 475 persons,” Inuwa said. “In September and October, however, only 61 kidnap incidents were recorded involving 201 victims. “There were 97 banditry incidents resulting in 130 deaths and 57 injuries in July and August, while in September and October, there were 56 incidents resulting in 83 deaths and 58 injuries. “For cattle rustling, statistics showed 141 incidents in July and August when 1,347 cows, 345 sheep, 119 goats and 13 donkeys were stolen. “In September and October, however, there were 56 rustlings with 676 cows, 109 sheep and 160 goats stolen. “The security challenges (containment) order, coupled with ongoing offensive, have significantly impacted on the ability of criminal elements to traverse the forest or communicate with their informants or relatives of kidnap victims. “The measure has also limited bandits’ access to cattle markets to sell off rustled and stolen animals to secure funds for purchase of arms and ammunition. “Thus, we have witnessed a decline in all banditry-related activities.” Inuwa further said in an effort to bring the criminals to justice, 480 suspects were arrested between March and September, while 42 are under investigation and 216 facing prosecution. He added that from September to date, 244 suspects were arrested, 33 under investigation, and 80 facing prosecution. “In spite of the successes recorded, it is worthy to note that since the commencement of the order, the bandits have been unrelenting in devising new strategies aimed at circumventing the impact of the order,” he said. “The strategies range from attacking motorists or motorcyclists to siphon petrol from their fuel tanks, to ransacking communities and coercing villagers into sourcing the petrol on their behalf. “A recent and most worrisome move by the criminals was the acquisition and use of radio frequency walkie-talkie transceivers. “Security agencies are, however, on their trail with a view to bringing the menace to an end. “Members of the public and good citizens of the state are enjoined to give maximum cooperation by reporting activities of informants and people with suspicious character to law enforcement agencies. “The driving objective is to arrest the emerging situation that is becoming a threat to peace, order and our collective well-being.”