The internet has revolutionized communications. It has improved interactive communication and accelerated globalization. Its ubiquity is visible  in every aspect of our day-to-day lives, changing the way we interact in the workplace, at home, school, and other areas of human endeavors. An internet connection is a necessity and not a luxury. The internet has also witnessed great transformation over the years. In its early days, it was a static network designed to shuttle a small freight of bytes or a short message between two terminals. Today, however, large quantities of information are uploaded and downloaded over the internet, enabling individuals to create content, and communicate with each other. According to Digital Council Africa, fibre internet subscriptions have surged by over 168% in the past five years, with 1.6 million endpoints registered by 2020. Fibre-optic internet is a broadband connection that can reach speeds of up to 940 Megabits per second (Mbps), with low lag time. It can send data as fast as about 70% the speed of light. In furtherance of its commitment to expanding broadband access across Nigeria, MTN Nigeria revealed earlier this year plans to invest 640 billion naira (approximately $1.5 billion) over the next three years to expand broadband access. This is in line with the Nigerian federal government’s 2020-2025 National Broadband Plan and in support of the MTN Group strategy, Ambition 2025: Leading digital solutions for Africa’s progress. At a recently concluded groundbreaking exercise in Akwa Ibom state, MTN Nigeria, in partnership with the state government, unveiled its newly installed fiber-to-the-home (FTTH) network in Dakkada luxury estate to ensure reliable and affordable internet connectivity for residents. At the foundation laying ceremony, performed by his Excellency, the Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, the estate which is said to be strategic for business owners, was borne out of the need to provide low-density housing units to the people. The luxury housing estate will have modern amenities, including back-up-gas powered electricity, and a water treatment plant certified by the World Health Organisation (WHO) amongst others. The event was also attended by the Governor of Akwa Ibom State, his excellency, Mr. Udom Emmanuel, members of the State and National Assembly, Captains of Industries, Ministers, and Traditional rulers. In a similar vein, the telecom giant has also partnered with Landafrique, an integrated real estate firm to deploy fibre-optic infrastructure to connect homes and businesses in Agbara Estate. L-R: General Manager Sales, LandAfrique, Mr. Phillip Obih; General Manager, Enterprise Sales, MTN, Nigeria, Bukola Akande; Chief Executive Officer, LandAfrique Group, Paulo Cruz; Chief Operating Officer, MTN Nigeria, Mazen Mroue and General Manager, Fixed Broadband, MTN Nigeria, Onyinye Ikenna-Emeka at the signing ceremony between LandAfrique and MTN Nigeria for Fiber optic deployment in Agbara Estate The agreement was signed at a formal ceremony held at MTN Nigeria’s Headquarters in Ikoyi on November 17, 2021, and had in attendance, MTN management led by the Chief Operating Officer, Mazen Mroue and accompanied by the General Manager, Enterprise Sales, Bukola Akande and General Manager, Fixed Broadband, Onyinye Ikenna-Emeka, as well as representatives from Landafrique Nigeria Limited, including the CEO, Paulo Cruz, Phillip Obih, General Manager, Sales, Landafrique and the General Manager, Agbara Estate Properties, Moshood Oyebode. The partnership spans 10 years, and covers the deployment of MTN FibreNet Broadband internet services with at least 5Mbps and internet throughput to each housing unit; as well as industrial and commercial units within the estate. Commenting on the partnership, the Chief Operating Officer, MTN Nigeria, Mazen Mroue, said the technology allows for increased network performance, as well as higher speeds over a long distance. “At MTN, we believe that everyone deserves the benefits of a modern connected life. The installation of the MTN FibreNet Broadband in Agbara Estate will ensure that residents are always connected with incredible speeds, leading to increased performance either at work or at home.” Fibernet assures that wherever you are, you are always connected with speed, enabling you to achieve so much more in a shorter time. The fibre-to-the-home allows for multiple upgrades without having to replace the fiber. If you or your business needs high bandwidth, a dedicated fibre link is the best option as it helps to ensure high-speed connectivity to transfer high volumes of data. The Fibre-to-the-home network will promote high-speed internet penetration and ensure high-speed internet penetration in Nigeria. MTN’s support for Nigeria’s plans to secure 90% broadband population coverage by 2025 aligns with the company’s belief that everyone deserves the benefits of modern connected life. MTN is working to extend digital and financial inclusion across Africa, while also positively contributing to the socio-economic wellbeing of the people.