Ahmadu Jaha, a member of the house of representatives, says the Nigerian Army needs to go on the offensive to win the war against insurgency. Jaha, lawmaker representing Damboa/Gwoza/Chibok federal constituency of Borno state, spoke on the floor of the green chamber on Tuesday. The lawmaker was contributing to a motion sponsored by Haruna Mshelia, who was calling for improved security in Mandiragrau, Askira and Garkida communities in Borno — the communities are said to be on the border areas of Sambisa. TheCable had reported how fighters of the Islamic State of West Africa Province (ISWAP) killed a brigadier-general and three soldiers in Askira town, Uba LGA of Borno state, when the community was invaded. Speaking on Tuesday, Jaha said soldiers must leave their comfort zone and take the war to the doorsteps of the insurgents. “I want to emphasise the need to change strategy. Whether we like it or not, you cannot sit in your comfort zone waiting for the insurgents to come and attack before you repel them,” he said. “Let us tell each other the truth. Inasmuch as the Nigerian Army fails to provide a defensive strategy, this war is not going to finish. We have to embark on an offensive strategy by taking the war to their doorsteps so that we can destabilise them. They will not have the luxury of time and the comfort of position to come and attack communities. “Even the successes as a result of surrendering to the Nigerian Army by some Boko Haram members, we are all aware it was not as a result of either kinetic or non-kinetic operations or firepower; it was a result of segmentary opposition between the Boko Haram members who are loyal to Shekau and some of them are loyal to the other faction. As a result of the demise of Shekau, some of the insurgents decided to leave insurgency, which is why they are coming to surrender. “So, if we are going to win the war, Nigerian Army must change strategy — overcome living in a single position for the insurgents to come and attack them.” Jaha said the army general was killed 4 kilometres away from the brigade headquarters, adding that it was “the insurgents that took the attack to the troops”.