Bitmama, a Nigerian fintech startup, has launched a programme to help young people transition into the blockchain ecosystem. Tagged, ‘Bitmama Credits Programme’, the fintech firm said the initiative is targeted at software developers, growth & product managers, designers, product marketers, accelerators. In a statement issued on Wednesday, Bitmama said the programme is expected to kick off in the second quarter of 2022. “The ‘Bitmama Credits Programme’ will provide access to blockchain learning materials, internships, community, and venture support to digital natives curious about the blockchain ecosystem,” the statement reads. “The credits will provide access to a global learning curriculum for beginners, intermediate and advanced tracks into the ecosystem. “This will cover all things relating to development around cryptos, defi, NFTs, DAOs, and web3.” According to the statement, selected recipients will have access to internship opportunities within Bitmama and its local and international partner blockchain firms. The company also assured that it would support developers in the programme with its application programming interfaces (APIs) to build blockchain applications and provide soft funding alongside its investorsnfor some of the best applications. It added that recipients would have access to a global network that can be leveraged for quick growth within the ecosystem. Commenting on the programme, Ruth Iselema, chief executive officer of Bitmama, said: “While blockchain is the future, a lot of young people do not realise it yet or it is still vague to a lot of people. “As a company, we are right at the forefront of simplifying crypto access for millions of people, which is evident in our products. This Credits programme is one of the ways we want to help make crypto mainstream.” On her part, Ebovi Wali, chief growth officer at Bitmama said: “This a major investment for us, but it is an investment back into our community and as you may know, building strong communities is one of the anchors of the blockchain ecosystem.” Founded in 2019, Bitmama provides a secured blockchain infrastructure that allows users across Africa to perform cryptocurrency transactions. The startup currently operates in Nigeria and Ghana.