The minority caucus in the house of representatives has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to sack Lai Mohammed, minister of information and culture. The caucus was reacting to the findings of the #EndSARS report submitted to the Lagos government on Monday. The Lagos judicial panel on police brutality, in its report — which included investigation on the Lekki shooting — said protesters were killed at Lekki tollgate on October 20, 2020. TheCable had reported how Mohammed, on five different occasions, said nobody was killed at the Lekki tollgate. In a statement issued on Thursday by Ndudi Elumelu, leader of the minority caucus, the lawmakers said it is shocking to “lie in a matter that has to do with the gruesome killing of citizens”. “The confirmation by the Lagos Panel that there was indeed a massacre at the Lekki tollgate during the 2020 EndSARS protests in Lagos and that APC government-controlled security forces carted away bodies and mopped up evidence, places a huge burden on the Federal Government which had vehemently denied any killings,” the statement reads. “The minority caucus is therefore apprehensive as to what furtive motive must have made the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, who ought to know the truth, to rush to the media, ahead of the judicial panel, to insist that there were no killings at Lekki Tollgate, even in the face of testimonies of witnesses at the sad event. “Whereas the proclivity of the APC-led administration to lie to Nigerians on issues is legendry and known to all, our caucus is however shocked that the administration can lie in a matter that has to do with the gruesome killing of citizens, particularly our youths, and even attempt to provide official cover to the culprits. “As representatives of the people, the minority caucus holds that killing of our young ones for having the audacity to demand justice, rule of law and good governance in our nation is the height of wickedness which will continue to haunt the APC and its administration until justice is served. “The report of the Lagos panel shows that no matter how lies and falsehood try to prevail, the truth will always triumph at the end. The blood of the innocent slain at Lekki Tollgate cry out for justice and there will be no rest for their killers and those who give support or cover to the murderous act. “The minority caucus, therefore, calls on the APC-led administration to come clean on the killings as well as the furtive moves to cover up the vicious act. Also, given the findings of the Lagos panel, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed is expected to resign immediately or be fired by President Muhammadu Buhari.” The lawmakers also asked panels investigating allegations of brutality in other states to ensure that the truth is not suppressed.