Ibrahim Shekarau, senator representing Kano central, and Femi Adesina, special adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on media and publicity, will be among the dignitaries present at the fourth edition of the Campus Journalism Awards (CJA). The event, billed for December 11 in Abuja, will celebrate young Nigerian journalists for their outstanding impact on society. Shekarau confirmed his attendance in a statement by Sule Yau Sule, his media aide, describing the invitation as a “honour”. Also expected at the event include Auwal Musa Rafsanjani, executive director, civil society legislative advocacy centre (CISLAC) while Dayo Aiyetan, executive director, International Centre for Investigative Reporting (ICIR), will be the keynote speaker on  “the role of media in trouble times”. Speaking on the award, Gidado Yushau Shuaib, Youths Digest editor, expressed delight that the annual award event has fostered the “spirit of competition” among budding journalists who strive to become better versions of themselves. “Our coveted CJA is the only platform and avenue that has consistently celebrated these brilliant lads,” he said. “As campus journalists, they have been, through their explosive investigative stories and other genre of writings, remodel the face of the Nigeria media. “Therefore, it is only appropriate that we roll out the drums to honour these exceptional writing and journalism prodigies, yearly.” Shuaib also revealed that the ‘Edirin Jerry-Wesley Best Student in Broadcasting Award’ will also be introduced to immortalise the late managing director, Nigerian Customs Broadcasting Network (NCBN). The 2021 CJA initially received over 300 entries from campus journalists across the country. The award categories include photo-journalist, pen club, author (book), social media influencer, investigative journalist, features writer, editor, magazine, upcoming writer, entertainment writer, sports writer, news reporter, gender equality reporter, and the campus journalist of the year. The CJA event is hosted with support from CISLAC/Transparency International Nigeria.