Former President Goodluck Jonathan has called on African nations to harness their diversity and differences for greatness. He made the call on Friday in Abuja at the Goodluck Jonathan Foundation’s policy dialogue. The former president said the diversity of Africa nations had often been misconstrued to be the source of their challenges. He, however, said that if well harnessed, it would be a source of greatness. “As president and out of office, I have been involved in managing conflicts in many African countries,” NAN quoted him as saying. “In the course of such missions, I had observed that one of the major sources of problems is the inability to manage diversities. “In Africa, we need to harness our diversities and differences and translate them to strength for a more peaceful and prosperous future. “Our diversity is often misconstrued to be the source of our challenges, but I feel, if properly harnessed, it will be the source of our greatness. “One good way to make progress in this regard is to strengthen government institutions to improve integration, equity, and social inclusion in our various nations.” Jonathan said to secure lasting peace in Africa, countries in the continent need to constantly engage in meaningful conversations in order to reach a compromise on issues. According to him, the weapons of warfare for the continent in challenging times should be love, justice and hope. “The pursuit of these virtues will guarantee sustainable peace and unity in Africa,” Jonathan said. “While guns, drones and other artillery may win the war, to win the peace, we need to constantly engage in meaningful conversations in order to reach a compromise on issues affecting us all. “We are optimistic that discussions and suggestions from gatherings like this will help set the agenda for bigger civic engagements for the promotion of peace and good governance in Africa.” He urged Africans to stop tribalism, noting that one tribe cannot make an entire country. The former president also called on civil society organisations and the media to continue to mount pressure on the leaders to promote unity and democracy in the continent.