The Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG) has extended its two-week strike notice by seven days following the intervention of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). Afolabi Olawale, NUPENG general secretary, announced this in a statement on Thursday. NUPENG had, on November 15, issued a 14-day ultimatum to the federal government over non-implementation of agreements entered with the union. The union’s grievances include non-payment of workers’ salaries, title benefits, among other welfare and membership-related issues. The ultimatum would have expired on Monday, November 29, 2021. Olawale said that the management of NNPC has intervened, adding that discussions with parties and other relevant stakeholders are ongoing. “Following the various interventions and engagements with government agencies and institutions, most especially the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) on the 14 days ultimatum issued by the Union, the leadership of the Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG) has decided to extend the 14-day ultimatum given to the federal government which was expected to terminate on Monday 29th November 2021 by 7 days from the initial terminal date of Monday, November 29, 2021,” the statement reads. Olawale said that in spite of the various interventions and engagements with government agencies and institutions, issues concerning the welfare of members and unfair labour practices by some oil majors had yet to be fully resolved. “Leadership of the union is still exercising further patience and restraint to give the ongoing discussions the chances of resolving these issues once and for all,” the statement further reads. “The decision of the union to give another seven-day ultimatum should not be misconstrued as a sign of capitulation or weakness. “Rather, it is a demonstration of our resolve not to inflict unnecessary pains on Nigerians or create any form of artificial scarcity of petroleum products. NUPENG further urged the government and all other concerned organisations to take advantage of the extension to address the issues. “It is our hope that the federal government and all other concerned entities will take advantage of the extension to do the needful and save the nation the pains and losses our industrial action would bring,” the statement adds. “We urge our members to remain calm and await further directives as our solidarity remains.”