Anap Foundation says it is working with social influencers in a bid to get youths to register for their voter card ahead of the 2023 general election. Atedo Peterside, the founder of Stanbic IBTC and the organisation’s founder, said this on Wednesday in a post on Twitter. “Happy to announce via video that Anap Foundation has teamed up with select social influencers across the country to get Nigerian youths 18+ to register for and claim their voter’s card well before the 2023 elections. Let’s act now to build the Nigeria we desire,” he wrote. Anap Foundation is a non-profit organisation committed to promoting good governance. The influencers are Aisha Yesufu, activist and co-convener of the Bring Back Our Girls (BBOG) campaign; Nuruddeen Lemu, director, research and training, the Da’wah institute, Islamic education trust; Dike Chukwumerijie, Folarin Falana (Falz), Nigerian rapper; Atedo Peterside, Stanbic IBTC; Tony Rapu, medical doctor and pastor; and Yemi Adamolekun, executive director, EiE Nigeria. Others are Mohammed Ali Pate, professor of public health leadership at Harvard; Osita Chidoka, founder, unlock Nigeria; Muhammad Sanusi, Emir of Kano, Matthew Kukah, Catholic bishop of Sokoto diocese; Salamatu Suleiman, former commissioner; Arunma Oteh, former World Bank treasurer; Kashmir’s Imam, chairperson of the tertiary education trust fund; Hamzat Lawal, founder, Connected development (CODE); Aisha Osori, author, Tomiwa Aladekomo, national chair, youth party, and Ibrahim Wasiri, house of representatives member. In June, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) launched a portal where Nigerians can register or request to update their voter information before they complete the process physically at designated centres. According to the commission, 1,731,618 Nigerians have completed their registration as of Monday. Out of this number, over 1.2 million are young people between the ages of 18 and 34.  VIDEO: @anapfoundation teams up with influencers to encourage voter registration@HamzyCODE @AtedoPeterside @falzthebahdguy @AishaYesufu @aoteh @osita_chidoka pic.twitter.com/iA2DW8Ez5q — TheCable (@thecableng) November 18, 2021 