Inuwa Yahaya, governor of Gombe state, has accused Danjuma Goje, senator representing Gombe central, of trying to cause “mayhem” in the state. Last week, Goje was attacked while he was trying to make his way to the state capital. The senator had accused the governor of unleashing thugs on him when he visited Gombe for a private function. Thereafter, the lawmaker petitioned Usman Baba, inspector-general of police (IGP) and Abubakar Malami, attorney-general of the federation (AGF), over the alleged attempt on his life. Speaking with journalists at the state house on Tuesday, Yahaya said the people resisted the alleged attempt of Goje to cause a breakdown of law and order in the state. “The authorities concerned will find out the truth since he has reported so that the matter would be investigated,” the governor said. “Let’s wait for the outcome of the investigation, but whoever knows the history of Gombe knows who Goje is and they know who Inuwa is. People know the difference between us. “The security situation in my state is calm now and people are going about their normal activities. The issue we had before now was caused by a former governor of the state, Danjuma Goje, a serving senator, who you all know. “He tried causing mayhem and the people resisted that, but as result of the skirmish that ensued, lives were lost and some people’s properties were destroyed. That is what we as a government are kicking against.” Yahaya said he is particular about fulfilling the pledge he made to the Gombe people on ensuring sustainable development in the state. “My major aim is to stand firm and fulfil the pledges I made to the people in line with my oath of office as well as bring about development in our state, with peace and tranquility prevailing, because without peace, there wouldn’t be development,” he said. On if there would be grounds for reconciliation, Yahaya said his administration will resist any attempt to cause trouble in the state. “What he wants to do now is to continue with his old way of doing things while I and my government will not tolerate that at all and that is what led to the current problem,” he said. “He is an elder; he should be the one cautioning anyone trying to ferment trouble, not instigating it because of his selfish reasons.”