The #ReviveAPC forum has commended the national assembly for their “courage and forthrightness” in adopting direct primaries for all political parties in picking their candidates. The two chambers of the national assembly had approved the conference committee report on the electoral act amendment bill, which recommends that all political parties must adopt the direct primary mode. The decision to adopt direct primary has elicited varied reactions, with stakeholders such as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and some APC governors kicking against the recommendation. But in a statement, Umar Tambuwal, chairman of the forum, said the decision of the national assembly will be a major landmark towards reviving the essence of Nigeria’s democracy. “Our mission is instructively tailored to revive, refocus and reposition the founding values of our great party. And this landmark constitutional mandate of the direct primaries by our lawmakers is one of the major anchors of entrenching such a democracy,” the group said. “It is thus expedient to appeal to the conscientious leaders of our party and the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari to, as a matter of national urgency, assent to this very important amendment. “By assenting to this singular Act, Mr. President would not only be etching his name in gold but further enlivening his patent vision of a thriving democracy championed by the true wishes of the majority. With his unmistakable stance, we believe Mr. President would see this Act as a path to improving governance and installing true leaders across the length and breadth of our nation. “It is our solemn appeal to Mr. President, that appending his signature to this document enlarges our leadership fortune as a nation. Of course, we are not unmindful of the antics of the privileged minority within and out of our political party to upturn this landmark amendment to the Electoral Act; however, we can only be strengthened by our faith in the voices of the decent
majority who have established the foundation of our political processes and that these leadership challenges do not represent the altruistic interests of the people. “It is not a coincidence that the same set of governors that oppose fiscal
independence of local government system from their control are fighting tooth and nail to bury the direct primaries as a process of leadership selection. It is
evident where some of our leadership challenges are actually rooted. The question to ask then is: Does the true reflection of the wishes of the majority threaten any leadership that truly champions the interests of that majority? “May God strengthen our collective resolve to stand for what benefits the nation and pushes Nigeria ever relentlessly towards her greatness.”