The Ekiti police command says it has arrested one Johnson Apotire, a resident who “impersonates herdsmen”, for alleged kidnapping. Sunday Abutu, spokesman of the Ekiti police command, announced the arrest in a statement issued on Tuesday. According to him, a dismissed police officer, identified as Ayo Samuel, was also arrested for his alleged involvement in kidnapping and robberies in the state. “Sequel to the arrest of one Adebayo Akeem Banji a.k.a. Oro, Ogunremi Bunmi a.k.a. Bafon, Ige Adu and Jimoh Fayoke ‘f’ on 06/11/2021 in Ado-Ekiti by the Operatives of the Rapid Response Squad(RRS) for conspiracy, armed robbery, burglary, kidnapping, murder and unlawful possession of firearms, Police investigation led to the arrest of one Johnson Apotire ‘m’ on 17/11/2021 who confessed to be a member of the notorious kidnapping gang and further stated that he usually impersonates Fulani herdsmen due to his physical resemblance to a Fulani man,” the statement reads. “Also arrested is one Ayo Samuel, a dismissed Policeman, who confessed to be a member of the kidnapping gang and has participated in different kidnappings and robberies in the State.” Abutu also said police operatives arrested a housewife for staging her own kidnap. “On 20/11/2021 at about 1030hrs, a distress call was received from one Sule Nana ‘f’ that she was kidnapped by unknown gunmen along Ifaki/Oye-Ekiti road alongside other passengers,” he said in the statement. “She called her husband that the kidnappers were demanding for a sum of fifty thousand naira (#50,000:00) ransom before she could be released. The RRS Operatives, upon the receipt of the complaint, swung into action by combing the bush along Ifaki/Oye-Ekiti before it was later discovered that Sule Nana kidnapped herself to get money from her relatives. She has confessed to the commission of the crime.” He added that the command remains committed to ensuring the safety of lives and properties in the state. The police spokesman also urged residents to “report any untoward incident or happening observed in their environs to the nearest police station or call 08062335577”.