The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) says some election officials and persons scheduled to transport voting materials withdrew their services hours before the Anambra governorship election commenced. Festus Okoye, INEC’s commissioner for information and voter education, disclosed this in a statement on Thursday. Okoye, who said the commission is expecting reports from all officials deployed for the election, commended stakeholders that contributed to ensuring the success of the governorship poll. “The 2021 Anambra State Governorship election was conducted under the most challenging circumstances. Never before did the Commission have to grapple with numerous issues ahead of an off-season Governorship election, including attacks on our facilities, withdrawals of critical service providers such as the ad hoc staff and transporters on the eve of the election and the general tension pervading the atmosphere. Happily, the election passed off peacefully,” he said. “The Commission expresses its gratitude to the security agencies, election duty officials, political parties and candidates, the National Peace Committee under the leadership of our former Head of State, His Excellency, General Abdulsalami Abubakar GCFR, religious and community leaders, socio-cultural associations, civil society organisations and the media for the enormous sacrifice and support in ensuring that the election was conducted and peacefully concluded. “We look forward to the support of all Nigerians in the forthcoming elections. We will continue to work hard to protect the sanctity of the ballot and to conduct free, fair and credible elections anywhere in Nigeria. “We remain resolute that only the votes cast by citizens at polling units will determine the outcome of elections.” He also said Chukwuma Soludo, governor-elect of Anambra, will be presented with the certificate of return on Friday. “Following the conclusion of the election and as provided for in Section 75 of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended), certificates of return will be presented to the Governor-elect and Deputy Governor-elect tomorrow Friday 12th November 2021 at our state office in Awka,” the statement reads. Okoye added that the commission has commenced a review of the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) to address the glitches experienced during the election.