The Delta police command says it has arrested a 77-year-old welder who “produces guns for criminals” in the state. In a statement on Sunday, Bright Edafe, police spokesperson, said the suspect, identified as Michael Enipozi, was arrested in Irri community in Isoko south LGA of the state. According to the police, Enipozi was arrested after he was identified by a robbery suspect as the person who supplied guns for criminal operations. “At about 0500hrs, following a distressed call that three suspected armed robbers were in the premises of one man (name withheld) along Ozoro/ Ughelli road. The DPO Ozoro Division, CSP Ogedengbe Areguamen, led a combined team of Police/vigilante to the scene,” the statement reads. “The suspected armed robbers, on sighting the police teams, took to their heels and the team gave them a hot chase during which one of the suspects named Emma Ighodalo ‘m’ of Irri village, aged 28 yrs, was arrested with one live cartridge while two members of his gang escaped. “Upon interrogation, the suspect confessed that he threw his gun away somewhere in the bush as he was running and that he bought the said gun from one Michael Enipozi for the sum of N30,000. “The suspect led the Police to Irri village where the said Michael Enipozi ‘m’ of Irri in Isoko south LGA, aged 77 yrs, was arrested. Three double-barrel guns, two single-barrel guns and other tools used in producing guns were recovered from him. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the 77 yrs old suspect is a welder who produces guns for criminals and he admitted that he sold the gun to the suspect and that he has been in the business of producing guns for the past twenty years. Manhunt for the other two fleeing suspects is ongoing.” In another development, the police said its operatives raided a criminal hideout at Emevor community in Isoko north LGA and arrested one Solomon Udanya over alleged possession of 130 rounds of live cartridges. Also said to have been recovered from Udanya are “one single barrel long gun, three packets of tramadol, six bottles of codeine and various contraband drugs”. Ari Muhammed, the Delta police commissioner, assured residents of the command’s commitment to tackling crime in the state. He also urged residents to support security operatives by sharing useful and credible information.