Timothy Adebayo, the vice-chancellor of Ajayi Crowther University (ACU), Oyo, has appealed to the national assembly and federal government to amend the law establishing Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND) so that private universities can benefit from the fund. The existing TETFUND law permits public tertiary institutions to benefit from the fund which is meant for infrastructural development in the schools. Speaking on Monday at a media briefing ahead of the 12th and 13th joint convocation ceremony of the school, Adebayo said private universities have contributed to easing the pressure on public universities and deserve to benefit from the fund. “Physical and academic developments have been made through internally generated revenue because we have given ourselves to being prudent in managing funds,” he said. “Funding has been a major challenge of many private universities and ACU is no exception. There are 99 private universities, 43 federal universities and 48 state universities in Nigeria. The private universities do not receive subventions like others, so they rely on school fees, donations and gifts. “I join many other well-meaning Nigerians to call on the federal government and national assembly to amend the law establishing TETFUND so that it can also benefit private schools. This will also reduce school fees paid by students.” While noting that the 12th convocation could not hold in 2020 because of COVID restrictions, he said the joint graduation ceremony will hold on December 4 and 5, 2021 Adebayo added that because of the COVID protocol, the convocation ceremony for first degree and postgraduate students will hold on separate days. Rotimi Akeredolu, the Ondo governor; Henry Ndukuba, primate of the Church of Nigeria, Anglican Communion; and Ephraim Ademowo, retired archbishop of Lagos Anglican province, are personalities listed for the conferment of honorary degrees at the ceremony. “We are also delighted to announce that several projects done during the tenure of this administration will be inaugurated by Wole Olanipekun, the chairman of the school’s governing council,” he added.