Nigeria on Sunday recorded 57 cases of COVID-19. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Monday. UK’s COVID-19 cases rise by 9.5 percent Britain’s COVID-19 infections have risen by almost 9.5 percent. This is as Sajid Javid, UK health secretary, appealed to people to get their booster jabs to ensure the nation can ‘look forward to Christmas together’. The department of health reported a further 40,004 cases on Sunday, a rise from the 36,517 reported last Sunday. The number of people dying of the infection, however, saw a 3 percent drop — with 61 deaths reported — bringing the UK total to 143,927. Lagos suspends annual fiesta over fears of COVID fourth wave Lagos has announced the suspension of Greater Lagos Fiesta owing to the fourth wave of COVID-19. Uzamat Akinbile-Yussuf, the Lagos state commissioner for tourism, arts and culture, in a statement on Saturday, said the suspension follows sound advisory from health authorities in respect of the mammoth crowd expected at some of the gatherings. “The strategic intent of the state government in wanting to hold the fiesta was to accelerate the process of reflating the economy of Lagos State, by putting money in the hands of our people through the deluge of commercial activities planned to take place during the fiesta,” the statement reads. ”But the imperatives of protecting the lives of our people clearly override all economic and commercial considerations,” she said. Protests erupt in Europe over COVID-19 restrictions Tens of thousands of protesters, many from far-right groups, have taken to the streets of Vienna after the Austrian government announced a nationwide lockdown from Monday to contain skyrocketing coronavirus infections. They brandished national flags and banners reading “freedom”, as they shouted “Resistance!” and booed the police. There were also demonstrations against restrictions in Switzerland, Croatia, Italy, Northern Ireland and the Netherlands on Saturday. Protesters rallied against coronavirus restrictions and mandatory COVID-19 passes required in many European countries to enter restaurants, Christmas markets or sports events, as well as mandatory vaccinations. NCDC reports 57 new COVID cases, one death The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has confirmed 57 new cases of COVID-19 in Nigeria. According to the agency’s update for November 21, the new cases were reported in 10 states. The states that reported new infections are Lagos (30), Enugu (9), Rivers (7), Kaduna (3), Osun (3), Abia (1), Bauchi (1), Kano (1), Ogun (1), and Plateau (1). One death was recorded on Sunday, raising the number of fatalities to 2,974. Meanwhile, 32 persons were discharged after recovering from the infection. Since the index case in February 2020, 213,589 cases of COVID-19 have been confirmed — with 206,518 recoveries across the country. Germany faces ‘national emergency’ as new COVID records are reached Germany is facing a “national emergency” with record coronavirus infections. The country, along with Austria, are contributing to Europe’s 15 percent weekly surge in cases and 4 percent deaths — the only continent to rise in both categories. Germany reported 331,944 cases in the past week, which is second to the United States’ 601,415. Deaths rose by 22 percent with 1,394 recorded. Jens Spahn, Germany’s health minister, said  the “national emergency” may lead to new lockdowns for everyone. “We are in a position where nothing should be ruled out,” the minister said.