Nigeria on Wednesday recorded 65 COVID-19 infections. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Thursday. ‘Nepal to vaccinate all adults by April’ Nepal is planning to vaccinate all adults against COVID-19 by April 2022. Birod Khatiwada, health minister, said the country is also focusing on taking vaccine doses into remote areas, including mountainous regions, adding that the government will employ workers and set up vaccination centres to meet the target. “We are going to meet our target or even exceed our goal because we are already getting enough vaccines,” Khatiwada was quoted as saying. “We are going to hire more health workers so they are able to reach all remote corners of the country and set up new vaccine centres to reach all the population.” Japan approve administration of Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine booster shots Japanese health ministry panel has approved the administration of booster shots of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine to people aged 18 and above, starting with medical workers from December. According to the panel, after healthcare workers, people who were vaccinated with two doses of the Pfizer vaccine will become eligible for a booster shot in January. The Japanese government is also planning to make booster shots available at workplaces from March, 2022. Ten states sue Biden administration over vaccine mandate for healthcare workers Ten US Republican-led states have sued the federal government, seeking to block a COVID-19 vaccine requirement for healthcare workers. The lawsuit, which is seen as a resistance to President Joe Biden’s pandemic policy, was filed in a federal court in Missouri. The states said the vaccine requirement threatens the jobs of millions of healthcare workers and could cause a shortage in the healthcare sector especially in rural areas where some personnel are hesitant to COVID vaccine. COVID-19 fifth wave looms in France Olivier Veran, health minister, says France is at the beginning of a fifth wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Daily coronavirus cases have continued to rise in the European country, and the health ministry logged 11,883 infections on Wednesday. “Several neighbouring countries are already in a fifth wave of the COVID epidemic, what we are experiencing in France clearly looks like the beginning of a fifth wave,” Veran said. Nigeria records 65 cases of COVID-19 Nigeria’s daily COVID cases have continued to decline in the past few days. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) says 65 infections were reported in eight states and the federal capital territory (FCT) on Wednesday. The states that reported fresh infections are Plateau (22), FCT (21), Rivers (12), Bauchi (4), Lagos (2). Bayelsa, Edo, Jigawa and Kaduna states reported one case each. The agency said Wednesday’s report include 10 cases and 328 recoveries from the FCT for November 8; while eight deaths are a backlog from Edo state. The NCDC data showed that 322 persons were discharged after they recovered from the infection. The country has recorded so far 212,894 COVID infections, 204,675 recoveries and 2,922 deaths. 