BY JAIRUS AWO The United Nations climate change conference — COP26 finally came to an end on November 13, 2021. A day later than stipulated. The thirteen days conference in Glasgow, Scotland had in attendance world leaders from different nations of the world coming to the negotiation table to deliberate on climate actions and ambitions. At the conference, President Muhammadu Buhari said Nigeria is committed to net-zero by 2060; ten years later than the United Nations stipulated year of 2050. He mentioned desertification, conflicts, food insecurity as the impacts of climate change in Nigeria.
According to the President: “Nigeria, as a country has swung into climate justices actions, as spelled out in updated Nigeria’s Nationally, Determined Contributions (NDCs) submitted in July 2021” “We are committed to investing in tangible actions like new roads, renewable energy, creations of Jobs, and transitions from fossil fuels to clean energy.” “Nigerian energy transition is reflected in Nigeria’s emission energy compass which includes the government electrical project to electrify 5 million households and 25 million people using solar energy solutions.” But the question remains — how does the government intends to actualise its goals? This is because similar promises were made some time ago but Nigerians are yet to see results. Nigeria’s nationally determined contributions (NDCs) contain fresh and renewed ambitions by the country to tackle the climate crisis but not much has been seen of previous ambitions made by the federal government. Social and climate activists expressed fears that it might just be another piece of paperwork. According to Sadiq Aliyu, a climate activist, the government has paid more attention to paperwork than real action.
Aliyu said the plans by the government are impressive but more work is needed to bring them to fruition. Baliquees Salaudeen, a climate action advocate, believes that the Nigerian government is more active in presenting paper works than real climate actions. “The real climate action is the one that the affected communities can relate to. We keep highlighting plans. Those plans can go a long way in creating a comfortable environment for us all. However, actions are needed to back them up.” PROMISES MADE BEFORE In 2020, Mohammad Abubakar, the former minister of environment,  explained that the Nigerian government has been enacting policies to address climate change.  He noted that one of such efforts at honoring the Paris Agreement is Nigeria’s tree planting project that aims to address deforestation, establish more forests and limit land degradation. Also in 2020, Tiamiyu Oladele, the acting director department of forestry, federal ministry of environment,  announced plans by the federal government to plant 30 million tree seedlings in 2020 to accelerate afforestation in the country.
There is no available data to show that this project has been accomplished, but the icirnigeria investigations show that some multi-million tree planting projects have been dogged with poor implementations. Also during the fifth anniversary of the Paris agreement co-organized by the ministry and petroleum technology development fund (PTDF), Abubakar said the federal government had initiated several policies  such as financing green projects across the nation in various sectors of the economy. All in a bid to meet its Paris agreement commitments. But Nigerians are asking where this particular project was implemented. Climate Action Tracker, an independent international climate change analyst, also believed that Nigeria is not ready to fully implement its climate actions. “Nigeria has an ambitious 2030 renewable energy target, but implementation has been slow and it is not on track to meet this target. Its pandemic recovery package did include support for solar home systems, but much more action is needed here. Nigeria has one of the least reliable electricity grids and its citizens spend billions per year on generators,” it stated. WILL NIGERIA LIVE UP TO EXPECTATIONS? The impacts of climate change has further heightened Nigeria’s challenges. Such challenges as high rate of poverty, unemployment, recession, food insecurity, crisis, conflicts and migration. These has made Nigerians more susceptible to the adverse effects of climate change. In the northern part of the country, climate change daily threatens lives and livelihoods. Climatic impacts such as desertification, deforestation, drought, crisis and conflicts has left many impoverished. Towards the south, in places like Lagos, which is Nigeria’s commercial center, the impacts of costal flooding is but an evidence of the future impact of climate change on cities in Africa. As a coastal city, Lagos is also vulnerable to rise in sea levels, increased rainfall and storms. Nigeria’s vulnerability to goal warming and climate change is glaring and the country has made some commendable commitments to reducing its carbon emissions and tackling the impacts of climate change in the country, but this is without doubt on how the country intends to achieve its goals. As the world places an even greater expectation on Nigeria to lead Africa in sustainable development and clean energy, hopes are that the country lives up to its expectations. This story was produced with the support of Climate Tracker.