Ifeanyi Ubah, candidate of the Young Progressives Party (YPP) in the Anambra governorship election, says he accepts the outcome of the poll and will not challenge the results in court. Ubah came fourth in the election after polling  21,261 votes. In a statement issued on Wednesday, the senator representing Anambra south congratulated Chukwuma Soludo of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) who won the election with 112,229 votes. “Umunne m, this is not the outcome that we wanted and worked so hard for. Although some people have expressed mixed feelings and reactions about the anomalies witnessed across numerous polling units, however, the collective interest of the state must be our paramount focus,” Ubah said. “There is an urgent need to adopt a proactive, intelligence-based and technology-driven approach to tackle the prevailing issue of insecurity in our dear State Anambra through networking and strategic information dissemination. “I urge our Governor-elect to promote rapid industrialisation and work in harmony with members of the National Assembly in the state so as to harness the instrumentality of the National Assembly to create a synergy between the Federal and State Government. Improved health tourism must also be at the center stage of his administration’s policy thrust. “Our dear State Anambra is a land of opportunities; a home for everyone and the ‘Light of the Nation’. It is therefore a point of duty and responsibility to correct the ills of the previous administration and ensure that we remain a centre of opportunities and growth for everyone; a place where Anambrarians can achieve their dreams and aspirations.” Valentine Ezigbo, candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who came second after polling 53,807 votes, also congratulated Soludo on his victory. “I have just called Professor Chukwuma Soludo and congratulated him on being declared the winner of the Anambra State governorship elections, 2021. I wished him well and prayed for his success,” Ezigbo said in a statement on Wednesday. “Given where we started and where we are today, we consider ourselves winners. Our Ka Anambra Chawapu message has permeated the consciousness of Ndi Anambra & Nigeria. It is the strongest message that has come out of Anambra 2021 & it continues to beat in the hearts of Ndi Igbo. “On unifying Ala Igbo, I believe that every Igbo person now understands that they have a voice in me because I will forever speak in the interest of the Igbo Nation and the rest of the marginalised and forgotten in Nigeria. “We documented our grand vision for Anambra & presented it to our people with the energy to implement it. Though we may not have the opportunity in the immediate to get it started, we’ll be holding the gov’t in power accountable to ensure your welfare is foremost in their actions.” He noted that the election was replete with a number of glitches, which he blamed on the security agencies and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). “I will be dedicating time to champion the positive change we need to ensure that future elections are truly free & fair and that the will of the electorate prevails,” he added.