Sunday Dare, the minister of youth and sports development, says Gernot Rohr’s fate as Super Eagles head coach would be decided next week. The Franco-German, who was hired in 2016, has attracted a wave of backlash from fans and stakeholders for failing to lead Nigeria to silverware after almost five years in charge. The criticism became intense recently after a series of unimpressive displays through the Qatar 2022 World Cup qualification campaign. Responding to a question on whether Rohr had been sacked or asked to resign on Thursday, the sports minister said he could not say much on the matter. Dare, however, disclosed that the report by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) on Rohr’s performances in recent matches will be ready by next week, adding that the ministry will act based on its content. He said he will review the report before taking any necessary action. The minister, who spoke at a press briefing in Abuja, also said that his ministry will follow due process in dealing with matters concerning the national football players and the technical staff. WE’VE NOT SACKED ROHR, SAYS NFF The NFF had earlier dismissed reports that it had sacked Rohr as head coach of the Super Eagles. The disclaimer came after several publications had reported that the Franco-German had been relieved of his duties with the Nigerian national side. The NFF, in a statement shared with TheCable, refuted the claim, adding that “we have not taken a decision to sack Rohr.” The statement, however, added that “the Board of the NFF is studying the report of the Technical Committee, which is submitted after the match against Cape Verde in Lagos on Tuesday.” “There are a number of possibilities, but we have not taken a decision to sack Gernot Rohr. I want to assure you that whatever decision is eventually taken will be one that will please the generality of Nigerians,” it read. “Mr Rohr has a contract with the NFF, and there is a procedure for disengagement. If we get to that bridge, both parties will look at the contract and see what has to be done both ways. “The Super Eagles squad is a national asset, and we are just fortunate to be in that space to take decisions. Any decision we take must be what will be acceptable to Nigerians from far and near.” TheCable had earlier reported that NFF is beginning to mount pressure on the 68-year-old to resign from his role. An insider within the NFF told TheCable that the top brasses in the federation want to force the Franco-German out because “we do not have a coach in him” despite the “bundle of talents at his disposal.” The source added that the NFF executive members also “agreed to work something out to force him to tender a resignation to ease the financial burden of sacking him.”