The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) says it has arrested Okafor Okwudili, a suspected drug dealer, over 2.55 kilogrammes of cocaine recovered from a toilet at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA) in Lagos. The cocaine was reportedly found at the airport on November 12. In a statement on Sunday, Femi Babalola, NDLEA spokesman, said Okafor was arrested in connection to the find after arriving in the country from Brazil on November 13. Babalola said the suspect confirmed that he is the owner of the drugs. “While being interviewed in custody, he confirmed he is the owner of the seized illicit drug,” he said. “In other interdiction operations across the country, over 6,043.857 kilograms of assorted illicit drugs were recovered in five states of Adamawa, Ondo, Ekiti, Edo and Ebonyi with more than two hectares of cannabis farms destroyed. “A suspected fake security agent, Abdullahi Mohammed, who claimed to be serving in one of the security formations in Mubi, Adamawa state, was arrested with four blocks of Cannabis Sativa weighing 4kg along Bazza- Michika road. In the same vein, four other suspects were arrested at different locations in Jimeta, Yola north LGA, with assorted substances such as Cannabis, Diazepam, Exol- 5 and Tramadol tablets. “In Ondo state, three persons, Alabi Idowu; Oluwatomipe Olorundare and Finity Sunday, were arrested on Monday, 15th November and a total of 2,771kgs of Cannabis recovered from them at Oke Ogun camp, Ipele, Owo LGA, while 59-year-old Mrs. Joy Peter was nabbed with over 39kg cannabis and Tramadol tablets on Wednesday, 17th Nov.” The spokesman also said hectares of cannabis farms were destroyed in parts of Ekiti state, while some suspects were arrested over alleged possession of cannabis in Enugu and Edo. “While 2,582kg of Cannabis was recovered on Tuesday 16th November from Itapaji forest, Ipao, Ikole LGA, 250kg was seized from Ise forest, Ise-Orun LGA where the cannabis farm was also destroyed on Thursday, 18th Nov,” he said. “In Ebonyi, 29-year-old Ivoh Chukwuemeka accompanied by his girlfriend Ogbonna Peace, 18, was intercepted along Enugu-Abakaliki expressway with 20.357kg cannabis on Friday, 19th Nov. “Similarly, 377.5kg cannabis was seized from at least two suspects: Lucky Okhian and Aaron Monday in Owan West LGA
as well as Okpokhumi forest in Owan East LGA of Edo state.”