Michael Ade-Ojo, chairman of Toyota Nigeria Limited, has launched the first motorsport app in the country. Ade-Ojo also expressed belief that the app’s unveiling would inspire Work and Play group, the app’s creator, to further success. The launch, which held at the MUSON Centre in Lagos, was a highlight of the Nigeria Tourism Week in which Work and Play played a prominent role. “This motorsport App launch delights me because it speaks to two things that are dear to my heart, namely youth and mobility,” Ade-Ojo said. Adeoye Ojuoko, president of Work and Play group, who introduced the app to audience at the venue, explained that the app was built as an extension of the group’s racing experiences around the country as well as to help people hampered by different reasons to have a virtual experience. “We aim to present Nigeria to a wide range of audience in a manner they have not seen while we intend to also use the App to support the e-sport community and youth empowerment,” Ojuoko said. “We are determined to get more youth engaged with motorsport and the gaming platforms afforded us that leverage along with possibilities of visualizing a number of locations that we have had motorsport events since we got off as a group in 2017.” Efetobo Awhana, chief executive officer of Nigeria Tourism Week, expressed delight that the platform was used to launch a new dimension to the tourism sector which he reckoned had suffered from the strict COVID-19 restrictions. “Virtual Tourism has come to stay but the new realities suggest that we find ways to expand and carry different demographics along,” Awhana said as he commended the Work and Play group and acknowledged Ade-Ojo as one of the biggest investors to identify with the Tourism Week. The Work and Play group has since 2017 hosted and supported events in Lagos, Akure, Kebbi, Nasarawa, Abuja and ibadan. The newly introduced App features models of the cars being used in the live racing events, in addition to virtual representation of the racing tracts and destinations.