The Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) has constituted a task force to check the hoarding of petroleum products by filling stations. TheCable understands that queues surfaced at many filling stations across the country, while many others have closed down their activities, causing panic commuters and drivers. Motorists were left with no option other than to purchase fuel from black marketers at a higher price, ranging from N1,000 to N1,500 for a four-litre gallon. In Tsanyawa, Bichi, Dawakin-Tofa and Gwarzo LGAs of Kano state, reports indicate that some marketers sell petrol at N174 per litre. Idris Abdullahi, a motorist, said he went around the town to buy fuel on Saturday evening but couldn’t get any — and the situation forced him to buy from the black marketers. According to Abdullahi, he bought a four-litre gallon of fuel at N1,100 against N700 or N800. Malam Muazu Kafar-Na’isa, a driver, also said that he bought four litres of fuel at N1,500 at Tsanyawa on Sunday evening. In a statement sent to TheCable on Monday, Bashir Dan-Mallam, chairman of IPMAN, Kano zone, said the task force would work with the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to ensure the availability of fuel at filling stations across the country. Dan-Mallam warned that any marketer found culpable of hoarding the product would be dealt with. “IPMAN will not allow some unscrupulous elements within its fold to inflict hardship on innocent Nigerians,” he said. The chairman noted that available records showed that 210 petroleum tankers were loaded with the products for distribution nationwide on Monday. He, therefore, called on the citizens not to panic as the product being supplied would be more than enough for their consumption. “I urge people not to panic. That panicking is what causes long queues at filling stations because people have the impression that the petrol would be scared, that is why you see somebody with five cars and jerry cans come to the filling station to buy fuel. This is what causes congestion,” Dan-Mallam said. “Let me call on Nigerians to be rest assured that IPMAN, NNPC and other stakeholders are on top of the situation and be rest assured that this problem will not last long.” Dan-Mallam further assured Nigerians that the government had said that there was no plan to hike fuel price. “IPMAN had contacted all stakeholders in the petroleum sector, and they assured them that there is no plan to increase the price of fuel at the moment,” he added.