Aisha Buhari, wife of President Muhammadu Buhari and Samia Suluhu Hassan, first female president of Tanzania, will lead business leaders to the FIN Women Africa-UAE Trade and Investment Forum. In a recent statement, Olayinka Fayomi, chief executive of the FIN Women Africa-UAE Trade and Investment Forum, said the event would hold between November 22 and 24, 2021, at Shangri-La Hotel in Dubai. Fayomi said that the forum with the theme “The way to prosperous women of Africa brand,” will attract over 100 top business and professional women and men from various African countries and the Middle East. She said the event will play host to leading women from every sector of the continent and will further provide platforms that will help create positive changes for women. Top dignitaries attending the event include Auxillia Mnangagwa, Zimbabwean first lady, Hadiza el-Rufai, Zainab Bagudu and Olufolake AbdulRasaq, wives of Kaduna, Kebbi and Kwara governors. Others to deliver keynote speeches are Adeniyi Adebayo, minister of industry, trade and investment, Onikepo Nike Akande, former minister of industry and Esther Ajayi, a philanthropist and founder of Love of Christ Generation Church C & S Worldwide. Fayomi further disclosed that the forum will initiate ample conversations on the empowerment of women and task participants on improved mastery of available opportunities for trade, investment and tourism. The climax of the event will be the FIN Women awards — where meritorious recipients, including top business professionals and ﬁrms, will be honoured with various awards and certiﬁcate of honour. “FIN Women Africa-UAE Trade Investment Forum added that at the forefront of leadership, there is a commendable rise of women leaders changing the narrative in the region with more women being promoted to top leadership positions,” the statement reads. “Africa is an increasingly important continent in terms of economic opportunities with a rich and vibrant culture, housing dynamic female minds who can help shape the global future outlook. “During the last two decades, Africa has made remarkable progress within the African economies and is among the fastest growing economies being long considered as a land of unexploited opportunities. “Furthermore, according to the World Bank, Africa is a world leader when it comes to female entrepreneurship. In recent decades, Africa has also witnessed a tremendous increase in female top political and corporate leadership positions.” Also speaking on behalf of FIN Women Africa-UAE Trade and Investment Forum, Madelein Mkunu, founder & president, Leading Women of Africa (LWA), said that women’s participation in the event will serve as grounded evidence for economic development. Mkunu said the forum would connect leading female decision-makers, investors and women entrepreneurs from the public and private sectors from Africa to UAE. The event, supported by the UAE Government, will be attended by Sheikh Hamdan bin Khalifa Bin Hamdan Al Nahyan, UAE’s deputy prime minister.