Rauf Aregbesola, minister of interior, says the outcome of the November 6 governorship election in Anambra state has shown that the President Muhammadu Buhari administration is committed to promoting democracy. Speaking on Thursday at the end of the national security council (NSC) meeting presided over by Buhari, the minister said the Anambra poll is evidence that the 2023 general election “is not in any way threatened”. “That is a good assurance to all Nigerians, that we are committed to promoting democracy, that is in respect of Anambra election,” Aregbesola said. “The president was particularly happy that a free and fair gubernatorial election held in Anambra. And he was quite happy that the combination of INEC and the security agencies, from the military to the police and all the other agencies made that possible with the support of the people and the government of Anambra. We all saw the outcome. “With that, there is no doubt as to the commitment of our administration to promoting democracy, and ensuring that 2023 is not in any way threatened.” The minister further said Buhari has ordered the nation’s service chiefs not to rest until the security challenges are resolved. “He (President Buhari) is of the belief that more must and should still be done. But he commended all of them for the progress we are recording on all fronts,” he said. “The president said that we are not yet where we should be. That Nigerians deserve to live in peace. And that until we achieve that, we will not rest. “Specific orders have been given to all our security agencies. And we’ll see an improved response to all those challenging the sovereignty of Nigeria in whatever form and creating insecurity in whatever form anywhere. “The council today took firm decision on what is to be done and I can assure Nigerians that with the charge from the president and the commander-in-chief of the armed forces today, there will be an improved response to all forms of criminality in any part of Nigeria. “But what I know is that for as long as there is life, we must not rest until our objective of making Nigeria safe for Nigerians is made possible. So, I am convinced that with the renewed charge to our security agencies, from the military to the police, intelligence organisations and all other security forces, certainly Nigerians will feel and live better going forward.” Present at the meeting were Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, Ibrahim Gambari, chief of staff to the president; Babagana Monguno, national security adviser; Leo Irabor, chief of defence staff. Usman Baba, inspector-general of police, and other service chiefs were also in attendance.