Chukwuemeka Ohanaemere, an Onitsha-based clergyman better known as Odumeje, predicted in October the November 6 governorship election in Anambra state will not take place. In a Facebook video shared on October 29 by Holy Ghost Intervention TV, Odumeje said he has been praying, but instead of the election taking place, what he saw was death and bloodshed. The cleric was speaking at his church service on October 16. Anambra, like other south-eastern states, has suffered a wave of insecurity in recent months, raising concerns that the election will be marred by violence. “I am looking at election that will come in Anambra state; I have been praying but I don’t see election because I see deaths. I see deaths of gun. Through a prophet, a nation is saved,” Odumeje said. “We pray, this election in Anambra state, even before the election, because I don’t see the election hold(ing). Because I am seeing where people kill people. Don’t say I did not said [sic] it. “When I say something, I can never joke when I say something. I saw anger, where the election were [sic] stopped. “When a prophet is talking, a nation that wants development listens.” However, the election did take place and few instances of violence were recorded. Also, nobody was reported to have died during the main and supplementary polls. Meanwhile, a report of Ejike Mbaka, spiritual director of Adoration Ministries Enugu Nigeria (AMEN), saying Chukwuma Soludo, governor-elect of Anambra state, will lose if he contests the election is making the rounds. “I called Soludo and said, ‘you are my very good friend; Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, I have been sent to tell you not to run for governor because you will fail. If you contest and fail I don’t know what else you will run for,” Mbaka said in an audio clip, switching from Igbo to English. “Keep your prestige, your honour, your divinely acquired integrity, your professional reputation; go to the World Bank catch a job there. “I warned him but he didn’t listen, he said he is sure of victory. I got his wife’s number and called her; she was in London. I said this is what I told your husband.” However, audio tape was from a sermon in 2013, when Soludo was contesting against Willie Obiano. He (Soludo ) would later lose to him (Obiano). The warning by Mbaka has no connection with the just-concluded governorship race where Soludo won with 112,229 votes. 