The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) says the “personal sacrifice” of former President Goodluck Jonathan has ensured the unity and stability of Nigeria. Jonathan ruled Nigeria between 2010 and 2015. He conceded the presidential election in 2015 to Buhari before the announcement of the final results by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The opposition party, in a statement celebrating Jonathan who clocked 64 on Saturday, said the former president has continued to distinguish himself as a humble and selfless statesman. “The PDP and indeed Nigerians, across the divides, are proud of former President Jonathan as an exceptionally patriotic leader and national icon, whose achievements and personal sacrifices towards the unity and stability of our nation remains indelible in the history of our nation,” Kola Ologbondiyan, PDP spokesman, said. “Over the years, as deputy governor, governor, vice president, President, African Union (AU) Envoy and Chairman, International Summit Council for Peace in Africa (ISCP-Africa), Dr. Jonathan has continued to distinguish himself as a humble, forthright, selfless and excellent administrator, who puts the interest of the people above every other consideration. “Dr. Jonathan’s efforts in entrenching democratic tenets of good governance, equity, fairness, justice, rule of law, credible elections, tolerance, mutual respect as well as accountability in governance, stabilised and strengthened the bond of unity among Nigerians during his tenure in office. “Furthermore, Dr. Jonathan’s landmark achievements including legacy projects and programmes brought unprecedented massive development and empowerment of citizens in all critical sectors, in line with the manifesto of the PDP, leading to our economy being ranked as one of the fastest-growing in the world under our party’s watch. “Dr. Jonathan’s personal sacrifices in ensuring the unity and stability of our nation, particularly after the 2015 general election, stand him out as a statesman who put the wellbeing of the nation above personal ambitions. “Even outside of the office, our party is proud of the role the former President Jonathan is playing in ensuring peace, unity, stability, credible elections and good governance in other parts of the world.”