The federal government has launched a portal for the sale of completed houses under the National Housing Programme (NHP). Speaking at the launch on Friday in Abuja, Babatunde Fashola, the minister of works and housing, said the portal is accessible in 34 states and the federal capital territory (FCT). Fashola said the portal was introduced to ensure that Nigerians who desire to own homes, irrespective of social stratification, have equal opportunity to apply. He said the portal will also ensure transparency in the process. “We urge governments at all levels, as well as Nigerians, to use this opportunity and apply,” he said. “We just converged to introduce the portal for the public to be able to apply for the National Housing Programme online. “This will help to implement the economic purpose and blueprint because by the time we are done with this idea, the country will not have a problem with the recession and that objective will be fulfilled. “We have five phases of these projects. We are done with phase one and phase two. We will soon be done with phase three, and I want to emphasise that this will be the only solution to market these houses.” According to the minister, the houses are in one-bedroom, two-bedroom, three-bedroom and duplex categories, and the cost ranges between N9 million and N16 million, depending on what a person wants. He also said the programme is not restricted to National Housing Fund (NHF) subscribers alone. “We have different types of contractors — first, the medium size which are the businesses owned by Nigerians. There will also be international businesses that will be involved and this will give them the opportunity not only to contribute for the sustainable development, but also to their staff,” he said. Fashola commended the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) for being at the forefront of the cooperative housing initiative at the federal level. He urged the FMBN and Federal Housing Authority (FHA) to utilise the site to dispose of their own stock of houses and properties. According to NAN, about 5,000 houses are ready for purchase in phases one and two in 34 states and the FCT, while phase three is under construction in Rivers and Lagos states. To be eligible, applicants must have a passport photograph, tax clearance, pay slip, and means of identification. Persons interested can apply here.