The Lagos judicial panel on police brutality has submitted its report to the state government. The report was submitted on Monday to Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of the state, at the government house, Ikeja, Lagos. The panel submitted two sets of reports — a consolidated report on police brutality cases and the Lekki incident investigation. On October 19, 2020, as part of recommendations put forward during the #EndSARS protests, the Lagos government inaugurated the judicial panel to investigate petitions on police brutality in the state. Speaking after receiving the report, Sanwo-Olu said it is the beginning of the “difficult process of proper reconciliation and restitution”. The governor commended members of the panel for the work done, adding that posterity will be kind to them. He said the report will be submitted to the national economic council (NEC), adding that “proper response” will be accorded to the recommendations. Sanwo-Olu also constituted a four-member committee headed by Moyosore Onigbanjo, the state’s attorney-general, to come up with a white paper on the panel’s recommendations within the next two weeks. “I’m believing and trusting that this process will help us start the very difficult process of proper reconciliation, restitution, bringing together of anyone that must have been one form or the other being affected,” he said. “By either the police or any of our citizens that must have been wronged by one form or the other, the process of healing, I imagine, with the submission of this panel report, will start that process.” The sitting was initially meant to last for six months but the period of proceedings stretched into one year. The panel concluded its sitting on October 18, 2021, and said its findings and recommendations would be submitted to the state government. Doris Okuwobi, chairperson of the panel, had said 186 of the 252 petitions submitted were deliberated upon. According to an infographic released by the panel, the sum of N409.7 million was awarded to 70 petitioners. However, the decision of the panel not to disclose its report on the Lekki shooting incident did not go down well with many Nigerians, including lawyers representing #EndSARS protesters.