The Ondo chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described the recent appointment of Babajide Akeredolu as an abuse of office. TheCable had reported that Rotimi Akeredolu, governor of Ondo, appointed Babajide, his son, as the director-general of the state’s performance and project implementation monitoring unit (PPIMU). In a statement issued on Wednesday, Kennedy Peretei, PDP spokesman in the state, said the appointment is not in the interest of the state. “The recent appointment of Babajide Akeredolu, a biological son of Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, SAN as the Director-General of Performance and Project Implementation Monitoring Unit (PPMIU) is a flagrant abuse of office and affront on the people of Ondo State,” the statement reads. “The name Babajide Akeredolu became known in Ondo state when the State’s funds were used to procure a marriage for him in Colorado, USA, after the same marriage was consummated in Owo, his father’s birthplace. He has since assumed authority as part of the triad of the reign of father, wife and son. “The appointment as DG of PPMIU for Babajide, a young man who carries on as though, he was the person voted for as Governor is part of the grand design to finally empty the treasury of the State before Akeredolu returns to Ibadan. “It thus appears that Mr Governor and his immediate family are bent on living fat on the lean resources of the people, when poverty has taken over the land, walking in all four legs. “There is no further proof of Akeredolu’s insensitivity to the plight of the people, when within two years of tenure, he organized three lavish weddings for his children, all in foreign lands- In Mauritius, Canada and Colorado, USA. “It is very apparent that it is the greed of the first family that is being fed, no longer their needs. Akeredolu, his wife and children must appreciate that the resources they are wasting in this reckless manner was only given to them in trust for the people. They should remember that the day of reckoning is very near.”