The Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD) says the prevalence of fake news and fear of “federal might” contributed to voter apathy during the Anambra governorship election. CDD said the failure of the current democratic dispensation to cater for the wellbeing of the citizens also led to voter apathy. The 2021 Anambra governorship election recorded a low turnout of voters as 249,631 voters cast their votes, representing 10 percent of the 2,466,638 registered voters. The eventual winner, Charles Soludo of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), polled 112,229 votes. CDD, in its final report on the Anambra election, released on Friday, said the election is an indication of the difficulties that might affect the conduct of the 2023 elections, especially insecurity. The civil society organisation (CSO) said that the glitches experienced in the use of the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) raised the question of the need for extensive preparation and training before the use of the technology. CDD recommended that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and other stakeholders should avoid inconclusive elections because it dampens the confidence of the voters in the electoral process. The CSO also recommended that the federal government must take urgent measures to address the worsening insecurity in the country ahead of the 2024 elections. “The Anambra governorship election experience is an indication of the difficulties that might affect the conduct of the 2023 general elections as insecurity spreads and deepens in most parts of the country,” the report reads. “The failure of the current democratic dispensation to cater to citizens’ socio-economic wellbeing and safety, expectations that politicians with the biggest purses can buy their way to public office. “The prevalence of fake news and fears that the federal government will use federal might to subvert the will of the people all drove voter apathy. “Glitches with the Bimodal Voter Accreditation System (BVAS) raised important questions about the need for extensive preparation and training before adopting technology. “But there was a noticeable improvement in the supplementary election in Ihiala Local Government Area (LGA), and overall the use of BVAS highlighted the benefits of integrating technology to prevent electoral malpractice. “The late arrival of election materials and poll officials calls for a review of INEC’s current logistics template, particularly under the prevailing insecure conditions. “We call on INEC and other stakeholders to do all within their power to avoid inconclusive elections as it dampens confidence in the transparency and credibility of elections. “We call on the federal government to take urgent measures to address worsening insecurity in the build-up to the 2023 elections, as this has clear implications on voter turnout.”