The house of representatives has asked the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) to carry out an “explosive raid” on methamphetamine production laboratories. The lawmakers also called on the federal government to develop a plan to tackle the menace of illicit drugs. The resolution was passed during Thursday’s plenary session after the adoption of a motion of urgent public importance sponsored by Henry Nwawuba, a lawmaker from Imo state. According to the National Institute on Drug Abuse, methamphetamine is a “powerful, highly addictive stimulant that affects the central nervous system”. It takes the form of a white, odourless, crystalline powder that easily dissolves in water or alcohol. TheCable had reported that on different occasions, the NDLEA intercepted methamphetamine concealed in equipment, including tomato paste cans, religious statues, and auto parts. Leading the debate on the motion, Nwawuba lamented the proliferation of illicit drugs in the country. The lawmaker said “many homes in the south-east are currently facing the dangerous effect of methamphetamine nick-named mkpuru-mmiri,” adding that the drug is capable of destroying the mental wellbeing of the consumer. He said an “estimated 75 percent” of the users have become a burden to their families and communities. “Since 1990, the production of crystal meth has been hijacked by Mexican drug dealers who set up laboratories in Nigeria for the production of mkpuru mmiri in 2016,” the lawmaker said. “As a stimulant, it has a powerful euphoric effect similar to those of cocaine meth… typically keeps users awake depriving them of sleep, making them react violently and taking a toll on the physical look of its users.” Contributing to the motion, Lynda Ikpeazu, deputy chief whip, said methamphetamine can destroy youths if urgent measures are not put in place to stop its use. “It does sound like a joke, but it is actually very serious and killing a lot of people,” she said. “In the next 10 years, if we don’t stop it, we are going to have a zombie society. In my constituency, you will see 11 years old person taking meth. What kind of future are we expecting these youths to have? We are going to have a doped-up society, a zombie society.” Also speaking, Ifeanyi Momah, a lawmaker from Anambra, said the “NDLEA and other security agencies should be engaged to go on an extensive and explosive raid to destroy the local plants where they manufacture these drugs”. The motion was unanimously adopted when it was put to a voice vote by Idris Wase, deputy speaker of the house.