BY FRANCIS ADEWALE “But please, don’t tell me that Nigeria, as it stands, is non-negotiable. For me, this is a fallacy. The nation has to be negotiated. Negotiation includes ensuring that there is no marginalisation. Negotiation has to do with control of resources; it has to do with restructuring the nation in a way in which its components, its constituents are not feeding a bloated centre to the detriment of their development.”- Wole Soyinka (2017) The recent donation of $14 million by Nigerian billionaire Mohammed Indimi to a little-known American University located in Florida has been a subject of intense debate among Nigerians on social media. The Ijaw Youth Congress (IYC) reacted angrily to the donation and called it an irresponsible and colossal waste of Niger Delta resources. Is it? Others have argued that this donation is why we need a dialogue on the viability and survivability of the Nigerian federation. Many Nigerians hardly know Mohammed Indimi. The Borno-born billionaire made billions from no-bid oil wells gifted to him by his friend, Ibrahim Babangida. Indimi is the father-in-law of Mohammed Babangida, the former military dictator’s first son, who is currently the chairman/CEO of Oriental Oil & Gas. Oriental, the company that owns Ebok Field (OML 67), Okwok Field (OML 67), and OML 115, was founded in 1990 by Indimi, rated among the 10 billionaires in Nigeria. He started as a merchant trader buying and selling clothes, flour, etc. But no one in his proper sense would believe that he came about his current stupendous wealth through petty trading. He got his wealth from oil, albeit the crude oil that has now wholly devastated Nigeria’s Niger Delta and riverine communities. In 2002, Rotimi Suberu wrote about the three fundamental values or pillars that have kept Nigeria’s endangered foundations together as a nation-state despite the apparent ethnic, regional, religious, and political turbulence that has assailed the country. First is the continued application and adaptation of federalism as a mechanism for securing and advancing self-rule, shared rule, and limited rule in a multi-ethnic society such as ours. That pillar was called into question by June 12 annulment, and it took a massive course correction by the Abdusalaam administration to get us back to sanity. It is also why Goodluck Ebele Jonathan was asked to abide by its commitments to serve only one term. It is why northern politicians are committed to transferring power to the south after eight years of President Muhammadu Buhari. The idea of federal character in the participatory representation of sub-units at the national level is crucial for the unity and cohesiveness of the nation. One can only hope that politicians of both parties keep this unwritten commitment. For those who say zoning is not in the constitution, let me echo the wise words of Richard Simeon. “Harmony in divided federations may be better achieved through ‘constitutional silences,’ leaving some matters unresolved, rather than by trying to spell out all issues of identity and power in precise constitutional language.” He further argued that issues of constitutional change are typically highly symbolic, conflictual, and intractable. The second is the representative democracy, without which federalism becomes deeply vulnerable and questionable. The brazenly sectarian behaviour of the parochial military regime that ruled the country from 1984 to 1999 headed and dominated by Muslims from the north has been accused by many of provoking ethnic insecurity, anxiety, militancy, and instability that created the current polarisation and instability in the Nigerian federation. Sadly, the chief orchestrator of that military putsch is the current president, who again is being accused of nepotism, favouritism, and lopsided appointment in favour of his kith and kin. The third and final value involves the competent, transparent, and equitable management of the economy. The labours of our heroes past in the civil service in the 1960s and 1970s is now a footnote of history. No thanks to the pervasive scourge of corruption or prebendalism in the public sector. Prebendalism refers to political systems in which elected officials and government workers feel they have a right to share government revenues. They use them to benefit supporters, co-religionists, and members of their ethnic group. Efficient management of the commonwealth of Nigeria would enhance the material welfare of broad sections of the Nigerian population and not just a few sycophants and leeches. As Jeffrey Herbst noted in 1996, “unless the deterioration of the economy is halted, there will be no prospect for democracy in [Nigeria] and its foundation as a country will be under threat”. On this third prong, we can say that the Nigerian chicken has come home to roost. The potential economic advantages of a federated Nigerian union have mainly been negated by the mismanagement of our oil wealth and the attendant immiseration of the country’s population. Rapacious ‘militricians’ –military dictators assisted by civilian cronies- the wealth gained has been frittered away. The transition to democracy in 1992 has been a mere window dressing, as retired military rulers, their wives, and family members threw off their khaki uniform for civilian ‘agbada‘. No wonder then that the army penchant for rent-seeking continued unabated under civilian rule. Retired military generals have overseen the Nigerian central government far more than civilians. The mismanagement and attendant evaporation of the country’s economic promise should be laid at the feet of the military generals. Their maladministration is the source of despair and disaffection in the Nigerian federal union. Undoubtedly, the hundreds of billions of dollars earned from petroleum export since the end of the Biafran war in 1970 would have made Nigeria an economic giant but for their profligacy. For instance, Jacqueline Coolidge and Susan Rose-Ackerman asserted: “Owing to the vicissitudes of the global oil market as well as inefficient and corrupt domestic economic management, Nigeria declined from a middle-income country with an annual per capita income of about $1,000 in 1980 to an impoverished nation with a per capita income of only $130 in 1999”. Indeed by 1984, after ten years of the oil boom, the income of an average Nigerian was no higher than in 1974. During the 1980s, the economy declined at the rate of 0.4 percent annually, and in 1990 Nigeria was the 17th poorest country in the world. On top of that, according to World Bank, Nigeria had the lowest life expectancy (54.5) in West Africa! There is no better illustration of the scourge of prebendalism on the Nigerian frailty as a country than a cursory look at Indimi’s three significant breakthroughs in business. According to Indimi’s biography available at infoguideafrica.com: “In 1973, …, there was a great shortage of flour in Maiduguri, and the state government was importing and selling bags of flours to the locals at reduced rates. While Maiduguri was in lack of flour, Sokoto had excess flours to sell, so Indimi saw a great business opportunity ahead. He contacted the chief commercial officer of the ministry of commerce for Sokoto state, who was in charge of the sale, bargained and bought 50,000 bags of flour he sold at Maiduguri, making huge profits from the transactions”. Here we see Indimi’s rent-seeking business writ large; he bought flour imported for Sokoto (a north-western state), presumably, at bargain prices from his friend, the chief commercial officer of the north-western state. He then sold the flour to Borno state ( in the north-east) as the state government-approved importer/contractor, pocketing the profit in dollars. In the end, the people of Borno who bore the brunt of the artificial scarcity created through this government policy suffers. His next big breakthrough happened during Olusegun Obasanjo’s military regime. That administration gave him a no-bid contract to supply industrial water pumps for the south Chad irrigation project. As we stated above, his third and final breakthrough comes through the benevolence of his in-law, Ibrahim Babangida. In 1990, Indimi got an oil prospecting license granted by the Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida regime. He established an oil and gas firm named Oriental Energy Resources (OER). According to the official website, the company has expanded its portfolio and currently has three assets under development in offshore Nigeria. These include the Ebok Field (OML 67), Okwok Field (OML 67), and OML 115. This is a no-bid oil field allocation for which nothing in Indimi’s background prepared him for it. It is a rent-seeking enterprise where all Indimi had to do was collect a percentage of profit. He did not need to invest in Niger Delta, where we have the oil fields. Presumably, Indimi made the largest donation to Lynn University in Florida from this profit. According to USA News & World Report, Lynn University is a private institution founded in 1962. Its tuition and fees are $40,900 per semester. Do you know the kids who populate this school? Rich Wall Street sons and daughters. Mostly White Caucasian upper-middle-class New York rich kids. They do not need tuition and never beg for one. Therefore, the school was surprised that a black man from Boko-Haram-infested country would give such an amount. Meanwhile, students from the Niger Delta decimated by oil exploration activities cannot afford to pay their tuition abroad or attend the University of Maiduguri or any other public institution. There is evidence all over the internet about Mohammed Indimi and Yakolo Indimi Foundation for the benefits of north-eastern Nigerian displaced kids and widows. Still, I have not found anything pointing to an investment in the Niger Delta by Indimi, which partly explains the anger of IYC. Here is another exciting news item about this Indimi’s story. Before his recent appointment as chief of staff to President Buhari, Ibrahim Agboola Gambari was a professor at Lynn. Upon completion of his assignment at Aso Rock, guess where he will retire? Your guess is as good as mine. And he admitted that much in his speech at Lynn at a recent event. So, if you are wondering why Gambari and Indimi are not overly concerned about bringing back Chibok girls, the answer is simple: It is not their problem. Eight of Indimi’s 20 children (some of whom may be the same age as the Chibok girls) never went to school in Nigeria. Even his grandkids are all studying abroad. Ameena Indimi made that much known during the dedication of the building in the name of her father:
“It is a great honour to see you invest in the future of Lynn students as well as our children. My two precious children are coming to school here, and they will be so proud every single day as they walk to class to see your name, my name, on a building. I applaud my father for this momentous, astonishing contribution to my alma mata. We thank you, applaud you and cherish you for all time to come”. With this donation, Indimi invested in Lynn students and his kids but not in the future of Nigerian students, be it those in his Borno state or Niger Delta, where he made his wealth. We cannot blame all of Nigeria’s failings on the military rule and “militricians” alone, but they contributed a lot to its economic mismanagement. Their penchant for excessive but ineffectual and counter-productive repression of ethnic conflicts or protests is nauseating even while they engage in massive treasury looting. If you want to stop Sunday Igboho, banditry, Kanu’s IPOB, Boko Haram, manage the economy for the benefit of all and not just a few close friends. So, what can we do? We cannot but intensify the pressures for the re-negotiation and re-evaluation of the country’s federal constitutional structure and the territorial re-configuration or dissolution of the federation along ethno-regional lines. As Soyinka stated, nothing should be non-debatable. We need a roundtable convened solely to understand each other. They say the government closest to the people governs best. The current class of corrupt ruling class cannot get us there. The devolutionist agenda of our republic should be our top priority. Francis Adewale, an attorney, and public defender writes from Spokane, US