The federal government has accused the Eastern Security Network (ESN), an outfit of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), of “beheading two police officers”. Lai Mohammed, minister of information and culture, said this in a statement on Monday, adding that the attack occurred on Saturday. The Anambra police command had said two officers were attacked in the state over the weekend and their bodies burnt afterwards, but Mohammed was not specific about if the November 27 attack was the same as that which took place in Anambra. In recent times, the south-east has witnessed an increase in the activities of gunmen, creating tension in the region. Stakeholders in the south-east had asked the federal government to embrace a political solution and release Nnamdi Kanu, IPOB leader, in a bid to calm the tension in the region. Abubakar Malami, attorney-general of the federation, had also said political solution cannot be ruled out in the case of Kanu, and Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho, a youth leader. In the statement issued on Monday by Segun Adeyemi, his media assistant, Mohammed said the killing of security agents is a direct attack on the state, adding that those calling for a political solution are yet to condemn the “killing of police officers by ESN”. ”We have credible information that ASP Francis Idoko (AP No. 154945); Inspector Emmanuel Akubo (AP No. 222336) and Inspector Rufai Adamu (AP. No. 285009), all serving officers of the Nigeria Police, were abducted by members of the Eastern Security Network (ESN), acting on the instructions of their leader, Chinonso Okafor, aka Temple, on 27 Nov. 2021,” the statement reads. ”Two of the officers, Inspectors Akubo and Adamu, were killed in the most gruesome manner and their decapitated bodies videotaped and circulated widely. The leader of the ESN team that killed the two officers is one ‘Gentle’. ”Chinonso Okafor, the most influential commander of ESN in charge of Imo and Anambra States, as well as ‘Gentle’ and all those who perpetrated the abhorrent act will be made to face swift and sure justice. “Alhaji Mohammed said the targeting and killing of security agents, under any guise, is a direct attack on the state and will not be tolerated. “He said the continued attacks on security agents as well as agencies of government by ESN/IPOB are diametrically opposed to the call in certain quarters for a political solution to the IPOB issue, and wondered why those making such calls have yet to condemn the appalling murder of serving police officers. “The minister paid tribute to the officers, who made the supreme sacrifice in the service of their fatherland, as well as all security agents who are serving the nation to the best of their ability in a most difficult moment.”