David Umahi, governor of Ebonyi, has asked local government chairmen and traditional rulers to submit “affidavit of commitment to security” for road contractors in the state. Umahi said this on Wednesday during a site inspection meeting for the Abakaliki ring road project, held in Abakaliki, the state capital. In October, the governor approved construction of the second phase of the Abakaliki ring road. Speaking on Wednesday, Umahi suspended construction at section two, lot four of the road, located along Effium in Ohaukwu LGA over security challenges in the area. While citing the recent attack in the area, he directed local government chairmen, coordinators of development centres, traditional rulers and development union chairmen to tender written affidavit indicating their commitment to the security of contractors working in the area. According to a statement by Francis Nwaze, his spokesman, Umahi expressed concern over the recent abduction of four consultants on the road project, and urged stakeholders to work with security agencies to ensure the safety of the contractors and proper implementation of the project. “So far, we have not had an incident of insecurity in the axis of 135 to Ezza north, Ezza north to Ikwo, Ikwo to Abakaliki, and Abakaliki to Izzi, Izzi down to Ebonyi local government area,” he said. “Where we believe we have problems is the axis of Ohaukwu and that is Effium axis in particular. “The entire ring road project is threatened and I will be willing to shut down any of the sections that will not comply with my directive. “I need an affidavit from all the traditional rulers where the road is passing, town union presidents, local government chairmen, and development centre coordinators. They will give me sworn affidavit. The affidavit is that they will take responsibility for the security of the contractors, the consultants, everyone that is involved in the discharge of their duties and also their equipment. “Anyone I don’t get after seven days, no negotiations; I will shut down that section.”