Godman Akinlabi, lead pastor of The Elevation Church, has launched the Pistis Life and Leadership Institute (PLLI), a human capital development organisation for leaders. The institute currently offers open enrolment courses in governance and politics, leadership development, enterprise development and faith ministries. Speaking at the launch of the institute, Akinlabi said the institute had the vision of building a community of exceptional leaders who will be equipped with the right values to transform societies and impact Africa. He noted that with a youthful, fast-growing population and abundant natural resources, Africa is seen as the next frontier for economic growth but it needs strong institutions, smart policies and good leadership to realise its potential. Akinlabi said the institute is targeted at young people within the millennial and Generation Z age brackets. “Recent events in Nigeria indicate that the failure of leadership is the failure of everything else. Therefore, no other time is as ripe as this for the establishment of a leadership development initiative with a unique and dynamic framework,” Akinlabi said. “PLLI is intent on providing a unique learning institution powered by a robust digital technology base that will enable the training and development of leaders in different fields of human endeavour.” Also speaking at the event, Femi Johnson, chairman of the occasion, said the essential purpose of PLLI is to change the poor leadership narrative in Africa by developing a community of people imbued with the right values and equipped to bring positive change to Africa. “PLLI’s unique educational framework is targeted at creating a future-forward learning experience that will be perceived by all as the future of education designed for Africans and the world,” Johnson said. “It is poised to make a significant contribution to the development of leaders that will transform the African continent.” Meanwhile, the PLLI said it will hold its inaugural course via Zoom on December 5, 2021. Tagged ‘Business of Entertainment’, the free and open course will feature popular entertainment figures as facilitators including, Audu Maikori, music record label boss; Ali Baba, comedian; and Kemi Adetiba, movie director. It also aims to carry out a voters’ registration sensitisation webinar tagged ‘Making Your Votes Count’, billed to hold on January 15, 2022, and to be hosted by the institute’s school of governance and politics.