Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Igbo sociocultural association, says an Igbo presidency in 2023 will put a stop to agitations and quest for secession in the south-east. The association is different from Ohanaeze Ndigbo, the more popular group headed by George Obiozor. Speaking in an interview with PUNCH, Okechukwu Isiguzuro, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide secretary-general, said denying the Igbo the presidency will further increase Biafra agitations and threaten Nigeria’s unity. He said the group is already discussing with northern elders and youths, adding that “a new alliance” is being built with the north to achieve the goal of an Igbo presidency. “2023 Igbo presidency is very feasible and any attempts to derail the project anchoring it on the activities of the secessionist agitations in south-east is not only devilish but mischievously wicked,” Isiguzuro was quoted as saying. “The consequences of denying the Igbo the 2023 presidency will strengthen Biafra agitations and it will sink Nigeria’s corporate existence and threaten its unity. “The expectation of Igbo to achieve the desired results of having an Igbo succeed President Buhari in 2023 is ongoing. “The only way to end the secessionist movements and stop them from armed struggle is for the federal government to opt for a political solution to the problem of Biafra agitations, which Igbo presidency is one of it. A Nigerian president of Igbo extraction will end the activities of IPOB. “Secondly, there are ongoing talks with the northern elders and the Arewa chieftains, especially the youths. We believe that the discussions through sincere engagements will change the northern fears over 2023 Igbo presidency. “One of the practical steps to be taken seriously is the engagement of the other sections of the country especially the north. “We are building up a new alliance with the north, but definitely, we will achieve this lofty position through building consensus and confidence.” Isiguzuro added that only two people from the Igbo extraction had declared their interest in contesting the presidential seat and that the group is expecting more people, particularly from the ruling APC, to join in the race. Editor’s note: The featured image was used for illustration.