Nnaji Chibueze, a corporal in the Nigeria Police Force (NPF), has obtained a PhD from the Abia State University (ABU). The corporal bagged the degree at the 27th and 28th combined convocation of the university. Speaking during the convocation ceremony in a video published by ABN TV, a news platform based in the south-east, the police corporal said he was in a “critical condition” when he started the PhD programme. “With respect to today’s event, I’m highly excited for what God has done for me because I started the journey under critical condition,” he said. “In such a situation, I never knew at the end, I will have the grace, courage to start glorifying the Lord today. “I’m celebrating as a PhD holder, and a first PhD holder in my village, and as a PhD holder in the police, because there is this general stigma or sentiment that the police don’t read. “I started from the scratch in spite of the fact that I didn’t have anybody to help me; to start as a cadet, utilising my little income judiciously and effectively to achieve this great academic height.” According to his profile shared by ABN TV, the police corporal, who joined the NPF in 2012, hails from Umuezibuoko Umualu in Isiuzor LGA, Enugu state. He started his primary education at Odorbia Primary School in Umuezibuoko Umualu, Enugu, in 1994 and he obtained his first school leaving certificate in 1999. He proceeded to Community Secondary School, Umualu, where he obtained his junior secondary school certificate, while in 2005, he obtained his senior secondary school certificate from the Community Secondary School in Ihaohuala, Enugu. He proceeded to the Institute of Ecumenical Education in the 2005/2006 academic session to study political science and social studies and graduated with a distinction. He obtained a bachelor’s degree from the Enugu State University of Science and Technology (ESUT) in 2010, and in 2016, he bagged a master’s degree in the department of education, administration and planning at ABU, before proceeding for a doctorate in educational management and planning.