Sharon Ikeazor, minister of environment, says Nigeria made its “loudest” statement after COP26 by signing the climate change bill into law. On November 18, President Muhammadu Buhari signed the climate change bill into law. Speaking on Thursday at the weekly ministerial media briefing held in Abuja Ikeazor said this step shows the country’s commitment towards the Paris agreement on climate change. Ikeazor also advised Nigerians to support the present administration in fostering a sustainable environment that would benefit all. “I will like to state that Nigeria has delivered the loudest statement after COP26, by the president signing the climate change bill into an act and we have shown a very strong commitment,” she said. “So, the next step now under the ministry of environment is the implementation of all these commitments and strategies as well as the national plans we have in place. “For an environment that we can be in harmony with, each and every one of us has to be a part of that sustainable environment that we all dream about.” She said something must be done about gas flaring, adding that it will show the country’s commitment to net zero emission. Speaking on the environmental challenges faced in different parts of the country, Ikeazor assured Nigerians that the Ogoni cleanup would be completed in the Niger Delta and the Great Green Wall project accelerated in the north. “We must implement and accelerate the Great Green Wall project which is basically to review and reverse desertification and land degradation in the northern part of Nigeria,” she said. “We must accelerate also the Ogoni cleanup to make sure that the remediation is completed in time for the good people of Ogoni. “But at the same time, we must tackle the issue of artisanal refining because as we are cleaning, some are still polluting the environment and we ask that this must stop for us to have a clean and decent environment. “The ministry recognises the need to establish the necessary polity, strategy, policy and financial mechanisms that will enable Nigeria have in place all the appropriate environmental governance structure that we need and at the same time, reduce carbon emission and pollution, enhance our energy resources efficiently and also prevent the loss of biodiversity in the ecosystem.” She also said the ministry has made progress on addressing erosion and flooding in the country.