The federal government has called for the cooperation of Qatar in the area of gas development to boost investment in power and gas-based industries. Gabriel Taminu Aduda, permanent secretary, ministry of foreign affairs, made the call on Tuesday when he met with Ahmed bin Hassan Al Hammadi, the secretary-general of the ministry of foreign affairs of Qatar, in Doha. Aduda said the government committed huge resources to ensure that domestic gas infrastructure reaches every corner of the country to deepen natural gas utilisation. Gas development has been one of the main focuses of Mele Kyari, group managing director (GMD) of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). In April, NNPC, Sterling Exploration and Energy Production Company (SEEPCO), signed an agreement for the development of gas from the oil mining lease (OML) 143. Other projects implemented to boost the gas sector include the Escravos-Lagos Pipeline System Phase 2, Obiafu-Obrikom-Oben Lot 2, the NPDC Oredo Gas Handling Facility. Speaking at the meeting, Aduda also called for investment in gas exploration and infrastructure; technology exchange, skills acquisition, and knowledge sharing. He also called for collaboration in campaigning for gas as the fuel of choice amid climate change and global energy transition. Other areas he touched on were the relaxation of visa restrictions on Nigerians who intend to visit Qatar and the relaxation of workplace visa restrictions on Nigerian professionals. The permanent secretary stated further that the ministry of foreign affairs in Nigeria had resolved to focus and improve upon was the training and re-training of staff. He said the training programme of the Diplomatic Institute of the ministry of foreign affairs of Qatar ranks among the best in the world and cuts across all categories of staff. Aduda discussed support and cooperation in capacity building for knowledge, skills, and competencies for foreign service officers in line with the Qatari Competency Framework. In his response, Al Hammadi reiterated the excellent relations between Nigeria and Qatar and welcomed the proposal for cooperation between the Diplomatic Institute of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Qatar and the Foreign Service Academy of Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Nigeria. He assured the permanent secretary that Qatar is ready to provide training for Nigerian diplomats. To achieve this, he said the head of the Diplomatic Institute will meet with the Nigerian side and agree on the terms and develop a framework to actualize set objectives. The permanent secretary was accompanied by Yakubu Abdullahi Ahmed, Nigerian ambassador to Qatar, and Kimiebi Imomotimi Ebienfa, Head of Chancery.