Femi Falana, human rights lawyer, has asked the Lagos state government to designate places where aggrieved persons can gather to air their grievances. Falana made the recommendation on Tuesday while commenting on the Lagos #EndSARS panel report. On October 19, 2020, as part of recommendations put forward during the #EndSARS protests, the Lagos government inaugurated the judicial panel to investigate petitions on police brutality in the state. The panel submitted its report to the state government on Monday. According to the report, nine #EndSARS protesters were killed, while another four are still missing. Falana commended members of the panel for doing a thorough job, adding that the report exposed “the official lie that the report of the brutal killing was a figment of the imagination of the protesters”. He asked the state government to hasten implementation of the report and see to it that security agents found culpable are brought to book. He further said that since police brutality has failed to cease, the government should set up a Lagos state human rights committee in line with the recommendation of the panel. “A certified copy of the Report of the Panel should be forwarded to President Muhammadu Buhari in view of the recommendation that the soldiers and police personnel who engaged in the torture and reckless murder of citizens be sanctioned,” Falana said in a statement. “Having received the report of the Judicial Commission, the Lagos State Government is urged to accelerate the issuance of the White Paper as well as the implementation of the far reaching recommendations. “The policemen who were killed by criminal elements during the protests should be honoured notwithstanding that their family members have been compensated by the Lagos State Government. “While commending the witnesses and their lawyers for exposing the official cover up of the egregious human rights abuse perpetrated by the merchants of death, the Lagos State Government should designate venues where aggrieved citizens can hold rallies in exercise of their fundamental rights to freedom of assembly and expression. “The violent attack of unarmed protesters during peaceful rallies by police and military personnel should be completely outlawed.”