Olusegun Mojeed, president of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Management of Nigeria (CIPM), says organisations and businesses need to reskill and realign their workforce to enable positive business outcomes and remain relevant. Mojeed, who is also the chairman of the institute’s governing council, said this at the 53rd annual national conference with the theme “Reskilling: Growing People, Growing Economies,’’ held recently in Abuja. He said most organisations and business leaders changed attention as the economies are contending with the paradigm shift. “The focus is now on realigning and reskilling their people to add value to self, and indeed to all stakeholders, and impact the growth of the business, which ultimately translates to positive business outcomes and national economic gains,” he said. “The focus is to identify the new skills and competencies that are required in the new work realities and relationships. “It is equally important to identify the gaps in the current workforce and design ways of driving human capital and economic growth through reskilling initiatives and interventions.” According to the president, CIPM is set to identify the new skills and competencies, gaps, and design ways of driving human capital and economic growth through reskilling initiatives and interventions. On her part, Comfort Eyitayo, president of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), said organisations that would thrive in the emerging world must be equipped to be relevant and adaptable to the future of work. Eyitayo explained that the world is at a critical junction in global and national history and required to be properly equipped, adding that there is a need for a more dynamic workforce “As professionals life long learning is a must. The world of work is emerging quickly, so we need to figure out how to prepare for a future job that is difficult to predict,” she added. On the 2022 professional examination, Mojeed said the council had approved that four examination diet every year. He added that the ultimate goal is to do these exams at any time a student is ready and that the prizes have increased. Participants at the annual conference witnessed the decoration of 20 distinguished fellows with the highest membership grade of the institute. Other awards such as human resources, HR Oscars were given, including the conferment of Wale Adediran, the immediate past president of the institute, as a distinguished fellow.