Teesas, an EdTech startup, says it has closed a pre-seed round investment of $1.6 million to bridge the educational gap through tech. The funding round was led by Haresh Aswani of the Tolaram Group with participation from Olivegreen Advisory Partners, an African-focused Venture Studio, and other angel investors. Osayi Izedonmwen, founder and chief executive officer, Teesas, said the startup intends to expand its content to cover the entire K-6 curriculum, expand into Africa, establish a tutor marketplace and build the team. “I have always wanted to impact education through technology, and it is my firm belief that digital learning is the most effective way to bridge the educational gap in Africa and enhance teaching methods,” Izedonmwen said. “Our strategy at Teesas is to apply indigenous adaptations along with gamification to the child’s learning experience to deepen understanding of core educational concepts at a foundational (K-6) level. “Once cognitive skills are set on the right path at the lower schooling years, we see better academic performance as kids move into higher classes. “The pre-recorded videos are delivered by highly qualified tutors and uploaded unto the app across different grades with adaptation to make them fun using animation and gamification to enhance engagement and understanding.” Izedonmwen said the company would use the funding to promote and deliver educational content to children aged 2 to 12 years via web and mobile applications. “We are delighted to have secured this funding just a few months after founding Teesas. It is invigorating that the funding has come from investors who understand what it takes to succeed in Africa and backed or built fast-growing startups within the continent,” he added. Haresh Aswani, managing director, Tolaram Group, acknowledged Teesas for providing solutions to learning. “We believe in the mission Osayi and the Teesas team has set forth on and are confident that they are best suited to crack the challenge of using technology to enhance access to quality education across Africa,” Aswani said. Founded in 2021, Teesas said it is committed to delivering e-learning platforms that deliver curriculum-aligned educational content via web and mobile applications.