Usman Baba, the inspector-general of police (IGP), has asked commissioners of police and other strategic police managers to strengthen their capacity to deal with crimes. Baba gave the charge on Monday at a meeting with police managers, including commissioners of police, in Abuja. The IGP said the meeting was to evaluate the activities of the force in 2021 and identify gaps that militated against service delivery to the citizens. Baba said the meeting was to chart ways to bridge the gaps and enhance the professional and operational capacity of personnel in 2022. The IGP said 2021 was a challenging year for the police with potent threats to internal security by the activities of bandits, secessionists, kidnappers and other organised criminal elements. According to him, the challenges were compounded by the #EndSARS violence of 2020 which weakened the morale and operational base of the force, following the massive destruction of police operational assets. “Despite this reality within the internal security space, I am delighted to note that all of you, as strategic police commanders, remained resilient, and demonstrated a commendable level of courage, initiative, sound operational capacity and loyalty,” Baba said. “This is the spirit that we set out to advance in the policing agenda, upon my assumption of duty as the IG, and I am delighted that you have keyed into this new policing mission. “While appreciating all members of the force for these modest successes within the outgoing year, it is imperative to note that, the upcoming year could even be more challenging. “This is because it is a year preceding the general elections in the country. “It is anticipated that the political landscape will be charged in a manner that will further test our professional will and operational competence. “What this translates to is that we will not only be dealing with traditional crimes, our capacity as the lead agency in internal security management will no doubt be stretched to cover the management of threats that will be associated with an active political space in 2022. “My charge to you as we project into 2022 is to prepare to strengthen your leadership capacity in dealing with crimes customarily associated with the end of the year.”