Tukur Buratai, Nigeria’s ambassador to the Republic of Benin, says a strong and innovative think tank goes a long way in boosting a nation’s institutional development and democracy. Speaking during the weekend at the groundbreaking ceremony of Tukur Buratai Research Centre (TBRC) in Keffi, Nasarawa state capital, the former chief of army staff said the centre will fill the vacuum in the area of research and policy development. Buratai said the centre will collaborate with the Nasarawa State University in developing research areas security, defence, peace, conflict management, climate change, leadership and development. He added that his passion for human capital development is borne out of his desire to give back to society. “One may want to know why a retired general cum diplomat will decide to collaborate with a university to set up a think-tank like TBRC. Since this is a straight question, I will respond with an answer that is precise and straight to the point,” Buratai said. “It was W.H Auden who said that, “We are here on Earth to do good to others. What others are here for, I don’t know.” My simple philosophy about life is to continue to live a life of value by improving on the system that we have, and as someone coming from the military, I reckoned that the best way for me and my associates to add value to our society and make our country better and stronger is through a think-tank like TBRC. “Let me make it categorically clear to us that one of the factors that helped the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries is strong and innovative think-tanks. As far back as 1831, the Duke of Wellington set up the Royal United Services Institute for Defence and Security Studies with the aim of helping policymakers navigate through complex policy problems. Then the London Fabian Society which got established in 1884, home to Sydney and Beatrice Webbs, who later founded the London School of Economics. “In 1919, scholars like Lionel Curtis of the Oxford University spearheaded the establishment of a think-tank to explore international problems and advocate policy solutions. After that, we saw the emergence of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in 1916, which in 1927, merged with two other institutions to form the widely acclaimed Brookings Institution. I believe that there exists a gap in our polity that TBRC as a think-tank can fill through research and policy development especially in the areas of security and defence, peace, conflict management, climate change, leadership and development. “We need development in every sector of our national life, and this is something that should not be left for the government alone to do. As I have said in so many fora, there can be no real development without security and peace, and in the same vein, there must be economic opportunities, equity and justice for security and peace to exist which in turn serves as the foundation or pillars of development.” The former army chief added that the objective of TBRC is geared towards a more secured and better Nigeria for all citizens.