Four civil society organisations (CSOs) — Connected Development (CODE), BudglT, Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) and Enough is Enough Nigeria (EiE) — have asked Usman Baba, the inspector-general of police, to provide details of allocations for police transit camp projects. This was contained in a letter dated December 13, 2021, which was signed by Hamzat Lawal, chief executive of CODE​, and addressed to the IGP. The development comes hours after Fisayo Soyombo, founder of the Foundation for Investigative Journalism (FIJ), was quizzed at the headquarters of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) in Abuja. Soyombo’s questioning by the police was over a story published by FIJ alleging that there was “little or nothing” to show for the police camp project approved in 2018 and scheduled to be completed in 14 weeks. The CSOs, in the letter, asked the IGP provide details on budgetary allocations, expenditure, and procurement processes of the project. They asked the IGP to “use your good office and leadership position in the Nigeria Police Force to compile and provide budgetary allocation, expenditures, contractors, procurement processes and other details of the supply and installation of Police Transit Camp Buildings by the police Headquarters from 2018 till date”. “We understand that the Nigeria Police Force receives annual budgetary allocations by the Federal Government of Nigeria and state governments alike to support their operations and welfare which in turn has a significant effect on the state of security of the nation,” the letter reads. “Having observed that the welfare of the police officers is seemingly grossly underfunded and has become an issue of national concern despite the huge allocations to the security parastatal, it has become expedient to request for these details. “The request is in line with Section 2 (4) of the Freedom of Information Act, 2011 which requires all information relating to receipt or expenditure of public or other funds of the institutions to be widely disseminated and made readily available. “We will appreciate it if the information requested is provided to us within 7 days of the receipt Of this letter as required by the FOIA 2011.”