Kayode Fayemi, governor of Ekiti, has directed an investigation into the alleged assault of a motorist by security operatives attached to his convoy. In the past a few days, a video where one Dapo Oshituyi alleged that the security operatives attached to the convoy of Fayemi destroyed his car has been trending on social media. In the video, Oshituyi also claimed that the Ekiti governor was inside his car when the security operatives allegedly destroyed his some parts of his car and brutalised him. The incident was said to have happened along Akure-Oloko road in Ondo state. Reacting to the incident, Yinka Oyebode, chief press secretary to the governor, in a statement on Monday, said the victim was “driving recklessly” behind the governor despite repeated warnings by security operatives. Oyebode said the victim caused a “minor accident” which affected one of the vehicles usually reserved for the governor, during the process of “dangerously overtaking” the convoy of vehicles. The chief press secretary said Oshituyi’s claim that he was brutalised by the security operatives and that the governor was present during the altercation was “untrue”. “On the said date, Mr. Oshituyi who had been driving recklessly from behind, made to overtake the Governor’s convoy despite repeated warnings by the security operatives,” the statement reads. “In the process of dangerously overtaking the convoy of vehicles, he was faced with an oncoming truck from the opposite direction of the road which forced him to swerve dangerously into the convoy – an action which caused a minor accident that affected one of the vehicles usually reserved for the governor. “Mr. Oshituyi further sped off into another direction breaching public safety and almost causing another accident along the route. “In consideration of the security situation in the country, and the need for appropriate tactical threat assessment to clarify if the incident was simply a case of reckless driving and not an attempt on the convoy, a detachment of security operatives pursued the fleeing driver while the convoy continued its journey. “At the point of being apprehended when the security operatives caught up with him, Mr. Oshituyi refused to alight from the vehicle and chose instead to create a scene. “He was let go because of the pleadings of passers-by and people living in the area, who can corroborate our position that he was not assaulted in anyway or form. “We must reiterate that Mr. Oshitutyi’s claim that he was brutalised is just as untrue as his claim that the Governor was present during the altercation between him and the security operatives, which resulted from his indiscretions. “The development was subsequently reported at the Okuta Elerinla Police Divisional Headquarters, Akure, Ondo State capital. We further inform members of the public that the Ondo State Police Command, in whose jurisdiction the incident took place, is presently investigating the matter. “The Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi has a sustained interest in the outcome of the investigations and has urged the police to handle the matter professionally and ensure fairness to all parties concerned. “As a responsible government that believes in the principles of the rule of law and fairness, further action on the matter is on hold pending the outcome of police investigations, which would guide our next steps. “We assure members of the public that the Government of Ekiti State would not hesitate to recommend appropriate punitive measures against any of our officials who might be indicted, in line with the provisions of extant laws. “We are pleased that consistent with his character, the Governor of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi is well known for the civil and decorous way security details attached to him conduct themselves in the course of duty, which is why attempts by some detractors to use this development to cause disaffection against his person and office have failed. “We use this opportunity to affirm our commitment to the protection of the fundamental rights of every citizen and assure that we would not do anything to jeopardise such rights.”