The World Economic Forum (WEF) has postponed its 2022 annual meeting due to rising concerns over the Omicron variant of COVID-19. The organisation announced this in a statement on Monday. The event- an annual meeting of high-profile economically powerful nations and corporate leaders — was originally scheduled to take place in Davos-Klosters, Switzerland between January 17-21, 2022. It is now planned for early summer 2022. The organisers said a series of online sessions – State of the World – will be held instead, “to focus on shaping solutions to the world’s most pressing challenges.” They said that the pandemic and existing restrictions on travel and movement make it extremely difficult to deliver a global in-person meeting. “Preparations have been guided by expert advice and have benefited from the close collaboration of the Swiss government at all levels,” the statement reads. “Despite the meeting’s stringent health protocols, the transmissibility of Omicron and its impact on travel and mobility have made deferral necessary. “The health and safety of everyone involved in physical meetings – participants, collaborators, and the host community – have always been the Forum’s priority.” Commenting on the development, Klaus Schwab, founder and executive chairman of the World Economic Forum, said: ” The deferral of the Annual Meeting will not prevent progress through the continued digital convening of leaders from business, government, and civil society.” “Public-private cooperation has moved forward throughout the pandemic, and that will continue apace. We look forward to bringing global leaders together in person soon.” The WEF’s 2021 annual meeting, scheduled for summer in Singapore, was also cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Omicron variant had been detected in 89 countries and spreading rapidly, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO). Many countries have imposed travel restrictions to stem a new wave of infections, particularly ahead of the Yuletide season.