The Department of State Services (DSS) has warned sponsors of terrorism, kidnapping and other violent crimes in the country to have a rethink or be crushed. Speaking at a media briefing on Tuesday, Peter Afunanya, DSS spokesperson, said the service will crush those involved if they do not desist from the act. The DSS also warned politicians against making inciting comments to heat up the polity. “This is more so that the service has observed that some persons who are desperately seeking for power use wrong and skewed narratives to not only mislead citizens but overheat the polity,” he said. “Already, they are exploiting and politicising the issue of insecurity in parts of the country for pecuniary and other selfish reasons. “Many simply want to use the situation to cause divisions among citizens, seek cheap popularity and/or present the country as ungovernable. “The service therefore warns that those who are involved in these should desist from such destabilising acts. “It also enjoins politicians to play by the rule and avoid statements or activities capable of inflaming the fires of division and violence prior to 2023 elections. “Opinion moulders like the clergy, religious and traditional rulers are also to guard their utterances and avoid inciting pronouncements. “In a related development, it is common knowledge that criminal elements will heighten their inglorious activities before, during and after the festive periods. “Therefore, religious and community leaders, hoteliers and operators of markets, parks, recreational and relaxation centres are to be at alert and watch strange movements and activities around their facilities. “Let me reiterate at this juncture that those who sponsor kidnapping, banditry, terrorism, insurgency and all kinds of attacks on security agents, civilians and vulnerable populations should have a rethink. These persons, whether in the north or south, know themselves. There is no doubt that they have crossed the lines and it is now time to crush them.”