Some civil society organisations (CSOs) has asked Femi Gbajabiamila, speaker of the house of representatives, to step down from his position. The group accused the speaker of working with President Muhammadu Buhari to frustrate the electoral bill. The bill was transmitted to the president for his assent on November 19. The legislation provides for the electronic transmission of election results and the compulsory use of direct primary to pick candidates by all political parties. But Buhari rejected the bill, saying the amendment may open up the electoral system to litigations based on diverse grounds and issues of law, adding that adopting direct primary violates the spirit of democracy. The president said his decision to decline assent to the bill was informed by counsel from the relevant ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs). In response, Gbajabiamila had said the lower legislative chamber will decide on the next line of action in 2022. The CSOs, however, berated the speaker for not consulting the senate before taking a decision on the matter. They accused him of using the house of representatives to serve “personal and narrow political interest”. A statement was issued to this effect on Tuesday and signed by Ariyo-Dare Atoye, executive director, Adopt A Goal for Development Initiative; Ken Eze of Speak Out Africa Initiative; Jude Feranmi of Raising New Voices, and Obinna Eze Nwagbara, executive director, Youth and Students Advocates for Development Initiative. “We wish to ask Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila some salient questions: why did you make the entire country to buy into the idea of the direct primaries in the first place? Is this a conspiracy with the President to scuttle the entire electoral bill or the fear of the executive?” the statement reads. “Remember the exclusive retention of direct primaries in the electoral act was first his idea, so why did speaker Gbajabiamila deliberately refuse to consult the Senate to take a common position before adjourning over such a sensitive bill that has enjoyed the cooperation and support of the two chambers? In whose interest is the speaker acting? “Nigerians have lost total confidence in Femi Gbajabiamila as the Speaker of the House of Representatives. This is the time for him to step down and stop using national legislative business to serve narrow partisan interests. “We urge members of the 9th house of representatives to redeem themselves from the narrow hold of the speaker.” The CSOs praised the senate for its determination to fight the president’s action, noting that the national assembly has the support and mandate of Nigerians to ensure that the amended electoral act becomes law. “Against the expectations of many Nigerians, the senate demonstrated courage and has shown that they are with the people on this bill and we shall continue to encourage them,” the CSOs said. “The excuses given by President Muhammadu Buhari in his withholding letter are watery, shallow and suspect. The letter may have exposed the president as capable of using insecurity not to conduct the 2023 elections. “Nigerians must be prepared to fight and salvage this democracy.”