The Knights of St. John International (KSJI) has announced members of its advisory board. According to a statement issued by the organisation on Thursday, the advisory board will work with the KSJI leadership on ways to promote the order. The seven members of the advisory board are also expected to work with members outside Nigeria on ways of collaboration to move the order forward. “The Order’s Supreme Subordinate President, (SSP), Sir Prof. Remy Uche, has constituted a 7-man advisory committee to the order in Nigeria to ensure an all-inclusive administration of Knights of Saint John International, KSJI, in the country,” the statement reads. “Members of the advisory bard include Sir Hon Justice Paul Onumajulu, Rtd (chairman), Sir Williams Adegoke (secretary), Sir (Chief) John Nnia Nwodo, Sir Aondona Simon, Sir George Zangir, Sir (Prof) Epiphany Azinge (SAN) and Sir David Polycarp. “According to the Supreme Subordinate Secretary, Nigeria, Sir Cletus Ntong, the appointees will advise the Supreme Subordinate President (SSP) and the Supreme Subordinate Board (SSB) on matters considered to promote the ideals of the order. “The advisory board shall meet often to interface with external bodies, both local and international, on any matter of high profile value at the request of the SSP.” According to the supreme subordinate secretary of the order, the board will be expected to work in line with promoting the gospel. “The SSP needs wise counsel, and therefore requires the advice of these high calibre men with proven track record, to be able to carry out the task of evangelisation, which is the primary role of the Knights,” Ntong said. The development comes weeks after the KSJI held its national convention at the Holy Ghost Cathedral, Enugu, during which a new leadership was elected for the order. The KSJI is described as “a family apostolate charged with the defence of the Roman Catholic faith and came to Nigeria in 1976”. Its membership is said to comprise over 18,000 knights and their ladies. The order also exists in Kenya, Sierra Leone, US, England, among others.