Bisi Akande, former governor of Osun state, says Iyiola Omisore, his erstwhile deputy, crept into his life like cancer. In his autobiography “My Participations” unveiled on Thursday, Akande said he fell out with Omisore after he refused to sign a $1.5 million contract involving a company owned by his deputy. Akande, former interim chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), alleged that Omisore connived with members of the state legislature to remove him from office, but the move backfired. “Iyiola Omisore crept into my life like a silent malignant cancer. He came in full force. In a few months, I thought I knew him. I regret I did not know him in his true colours,” Akande wrote. “When, on that visit to me in Lagos, Yekini introduced his companion to me as Otunba Iyiola Omisore — alias Chrisore — the doyen of engineering, from Ile-Ife, Osun state. There was an aura of sweet and calm smile on Omisore’s face. He appeared to me young and attractive, about the age of some of my children, but looked deceptively shy and politically innocent to me. “Since then, he started visiting me regularly in Lagos and Ila, and calling me Baba while I called him Iyiola. Every place in my home, including my bedrooms, was made accessible to him even though I did not bother to know his house or wherever he might have been coming from. “I was quick to conclude, shortly after we came into office, that Iyiola Omisore would be a big problem for my government. His spending propensity was ravenous. His ambition was inordinate and he was prepared to go to any extent and employ any weapon no matter how dastardly or devilish to achieve his objectives. He showed his hands early enough during the transition period. For me, this was both a political and personal tragedy. “It became clear however that Otunba Iyiola Omisore felt offended that Bola Ige wanted Governor Akande to run for a second term of four years in Osun state government.” Omisore was impeached by the state house of assembly in December 2002.