Nigeria on Thursday recorded 47 cases of COVID-19. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Friday. Italy approves Pfizer COVID vaccine for children The Italian medicines agency (AIFA) has announced the approval of the Pfizer/BioNTech coronavirus vaccine for children between the ages of five and 11. The agency said children within that age bracket are to receive one-third of the doses given to adolescents and adults. They are to receive two doses of the vaccine three weeks apart. The AIFA said vaccination is beneficial in kids because it allows them to go to school and participate in activities, which is important for their development. Biden tightens US travel rules over Omicron President Joe Biden has announced stricter COVID-19 travel rules as the US confirmed a handful of cases of the Omicron variant. The rules state that all international passengers will be tested for the virus 24 hours before they leave for the US, regardless of their vaccination status. Mask requirements on planes, trains, and buses will also be extended until March 2022. Germany places restrictions on unvaccinated citizens Germany’s national and regional leaders have agreed to place major restrictions on unvaccinated people in a bid to prevent the fourth wave of COVID-19. Under the new restrictions, unvaccinated people will be limited to meetings with their own household and two other people. Outdoor events will have limited crowds of 15,000 and fireworks on New Year’s Eve will be banned. Nigeria records 47 COVID cases The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has reported 47 infections in seven states and the federal capital territory (FCT). According to the agency’s update for Thursday, the states that recorded new infections are Plateau (16), FCT (8), Rivers (8), Gombe (4), Kaduna (4), Edo (3), Kano (3), Bauchi (1). The NCDC said the report includes 8 cases and 7 recoveries reported from Rivers state for December 1 and December 2, and 16 cases reported from Plateau state are for December 1. The agency said 45 persons recovered from the infection, increasing the total discharged figure to 207,357. Meanwhile, there was no fatality due to COVID-19 on Thursday. Nigeria now has 214,317 confirmed cases with 2,978 fatalities. US records more cases of Omicron COVID variant Nearly a dozen cases of the Omicron COVID-19 variant have now been detected in the US, with many of them confirmed in New York. Cases have also been detected in California, Minnesota and Colorado, and Hawaii. The Minnesota patient was said to have recently attended a New York convention that drew thousands of people. “This is not a cause for major alarm,” New York governor Kathy Hochul said at a news conference, appealing to people to wear masks, get vaccinated and get booster shots.