Japheth Omojuwa, chief strategist at Alpha Reach, says ‘The Arc of the Possible’, the memoir of Waziri Adio, former executive secretary of the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI), should be recommended for those in public office. In a series of tweets on Thursday, Omojuwa said the book should be attached to the appointment letters of public servants. “Before you take up any political appointment or run for any office, read @Waziriadio ‘s new book,” he said. “I’d recommend it should be attached to the letters of appointment for ministers, commissioners, heads of MDAs and other such public servants. It’s a huge opportunity for everyone.” Before you take up any political appointment or run for any office, read @Waziriadio ‘s new book. I’d recommend it should be attached to the letters of appointment for Ministèrs, Commissioners, Heads of MDAs and other such public servants. It’s a huge opportunity for everyone. — JJ. Omojuwa (@Omojuwa) December 16, 2021  Omojuwa, who was recently appointed as a board member at Halifax International Security Forum (HFX), said the book gives one a sense of appreciation for the depth of issues and challenges faced by public officers. “When you read Waziri Adio’s book, you’d have a sense of appreciation for the depth of these issues/challenges. Most people romanticise the challenge, almost to the point of delusion. It’d be easier to reform Hell than to change some of these strongholds,” he said. “Goes back to the root of the matter, Nigeria is what it is because we are collectively who we are. The Waziri Adios will make more enemies than friends, even amongst their extended families. Because the expectations on public servants require them to be criminals from day one.” Speaking on Saturday at the public presentation of the book, Nasir el-Rufai, Kaduna governor, described Adio as a “shining light,” adding that he is an example for public servants to emulate. ‘The Arc of the Possible’, which is the first publication of Cable Books, has 25 chapters spanning five sections and almost 300 pages. In the memoir, Adio chronicles his early days in office at NEITI, the challenges he faced while trying to stay true to his values, the ideas he tried to bring into his job, the innovations he brought to bear, especially in the policy arena, and the lessons he believes all who want to serve in public office need to imbibe.