Michael Carrick has stepped down as Manchester United’s first-team coach on a high after victory over Arsenal. The 40-year-old ex-England international also left the Red Devils following the conclusion of his spell as caretaker manager. Carrick’s decision to leave United — ahead of interim boss Ralf Rangnick’s arrival — was announced shortly after he oversaw Thursday night’s 3-2 English Premier League (EPL) victory over the Gunners at Old Trafford. “Michael leaves with the sincerest thanks and best wishes of everyone at Manchester United after 15 years of exceptional service to the club as a player and as a coach. While we are sad to see him go, we respect and understand Michael’s decision,” said John Murtough, United’s football director. “He will always be known as one of the finest midfielders in the history of Manchester United, and, more recently, as an excellent coach who has worked tirelessly under two managers to help develop the strong squad which Ralf will now take charge of. “We are grateful for the steady leadership Michael has shown through this period of managerial transition, and, while he is now stepping away from day-to-day involvement, he will always be welcome back as a legend of the club.” Speaking on his departure, Carrick, who played 464 games for United between 2006 and 2018, said now is the “right time” for him to leave the club “I first signed for over 15 years ago”. “My time at this great club will always rank as the best years of my career. When I first signed over 15 years ago, I never in my wildest dreams could have imagined winning so many trophies and I will certainly never forget the fantastic memories both as a player and as a member of the coaching team,” he said. “However, after a lot of thought and deliberation, I have decided that now is the right time for me to leave the club. I want to place on record my thanks to all of the players and a special mention goes to the backroom staff, working long hours with such a great group of people has been a real pleasure and I have made some long-lasting friendships.” Carrick was appointed as manager on a temporary basis shortly after the sacking of Ole Gunnar Solskjaer in November. During his stint with United, he secured two wins and a draw in his three matches in charge. As a player, Carrick also won five Premier League titles, the FA Cup, two League Cups, the UEFA Champions League, the UEFA Europa League, and the FIFA Club World Cup.