Femi Adesina, presidential spokesperson, says President Muhammadu Buhari’s position as a democrat won’t change whether he assents to the electoral bill or not. On November 19, Buhari received the electoral act amendment bill from the national assembly for his assent. The president has 30 days to take a decision on the bill. There have been speculations that the president may not sign the bill, owing to the controversy that trailed the inclusion of the direct mode of primary for political parties. Speaking on Monday in an interview with Channels Television, Adesina said Buhari has already created a reputation of “clean elections” for himself whether he signs the electoral bill or not. “In terms of his image for democratic value, that image is made already. It is almost cast in concrete. You will find that one election after the other has been better under President Buhari,” he said. “Under President Buhari, the governing party has lost — states, legislative seats and so many elections. “It didn’t use to be. It used to be that whichever party was in power won all elections before by hook or crook; not under President Buhari. “So, his reputation as somebody who wants to leave clean elections for Nigeria has already been made whether the electoral act is signed or not. It doesn’t distract from that reputation.” ‘NIGERIA IS ATTRACTIVE TO INVESTORS IN SPITE OF INSECURITY’ On Saturday, while addressing a trade and investment forum in Dubai, Buhari had said Nigeria remains the most viable and attractive investment destination in Africa. Speaking on the president’s comments at the Expo 2020 Dubai, Adesina said aside from the security challenges of the country, there are other things that can attract investors. “Investors see beyond now. They would know that Nigeria has security challenges but is that all there is to Nigeria? By no means. That is not all there is to Nigeria,” he said. “There are other things to Nigeria which attract investments. They will look at those things and they will come in despite the security challenges, knowing that the security challenges won’t last forever.”