President Muhammadu Buhari says his administration will ensure that the 2023 elections are free, fair and transparent. Speaking on Friday at the virtual ‘Summit for Democracy’ organised by US President Joe Biden, Buhari said Nigeria will continue to support the “democratisation processes” of the West Africa region. The president said the unconstitutional takeover of power in some African countries must not be tolerated by the international community. “As we count down to our next general election in 2023, we remain committed to putting in place and strengthening all necessary mechanisms to ensure that Nigeria will not only record another peaceful transfer of power to an elected democratic government, but will also ensure that the elections are conducted in a free, fair and transparent manner,” Buhari said, according to a statement by Femi Adesina, presidential spokesman. “Your excellencies, Nigeria will continue to actively support the democratisation processes in our region, West Africa, and the African continent at large. “But regrettably, our democratic gains of the past decades are under threats of unconstitutional takeover of power. This unwholesome trend, sometimes in reaction to unilateral amendments of constitutions by some leaders, must not be tolerated by the international community. “Nigeria fully supports the efforts by ECOWAS to address this growing challenge and appreciates the support of both the African Union and the United Nations.” Buhari, who highlighted the advantages of the democratic system of governance, said more needs to be done to improve the process. “It is one governance system that guarantees freedom of speech, rule of law, respect for human rights and inclusiveness in governance. It also promotes social justice, economic and social development and national and global peace,” he said. “However, in spite of these laudable qualities, more is required from us as members of democratic societies, particularly in ensuring that democratic institutions and processes are strengthened, particularly during this period of a global pandemic which has threatened social cohesion in most democracies. “We, therefore, must remain resolute and enhance cooperation, so that together, we build back better democratic institutions and sustainable democratic values.”