Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos, has warned students in the state against bullying. His statement comes on the heels of the death of Sylvester Oromoni, a 12-year-old student of Dowen College, whose death has raised concerns. The late student was alleged to have been attacked by “some of his senior colleagues” for refusing to join a cult group — but the school has denied the claim. Following the development, the Lagos government sealed off the school, which is located at the Lekki axis of the state. Speaking on Friday when he inaugurated projects at the Lagos Model College, Igbokuta in Imota local council development area (LCDA), the governor advised the students against bullying. The projects inaugurated included a 182-bed hostel for girls in the junior secondary school and a 12-classroom block. Sanwo-Olu said since the new hostel was built for the junior secondary school, those in the senior class should stay away if they have no business being there. “As I want to encourage you today, I also want to admonish you. I want to say as a father and as your governor that I do not want to have students that will be condoning bullying or cultism in your school,” he said. ”You will have to renounce your membership if you belong to any and stay away from this kind of act.” ”If you do not have any business in another block, please stay away. We want to encourage you to say something if you see something. ”If you are in a senior class, you are not meant to bully the junior students. You are meant to encourage them and support them. You should never bully any student because they will grow up to become senior students as well. ”I want you to be supportive of one another. It is only when you support one another that you will grow to become great students and individuals as well as great citizens of this nation.” The governor also called for one-minute silence in honour of Sylvester. There was also one-minute silence in honour of Adedoyin Adebayo of Babs Fafunwa Millennium School and Akpolebi Israel of Ojodu Grammar School — two students who were killed in a truck accident that occurred on December 7.