Lagos, the economic nerve centre of Nigeria and a city renowned for hustling and bustling, witnessed a mixed bag of events — good, bad and ugly — in 2021. TheCable highlights some of the tragic occurrences that transpired in Lagos in 2021. IKOYI BUILDING COLLAPSE The Ikoyi building collapse will not be forgotten any time soon. Even when people eventually move on from the incident, those who lost their loved ones in the tragic incident will surely not forget. It is arguably the tragedy of the year in Lagos. On November 1, a 21-storey building located in Ikoyi caved, leaving 46 people dead while 15 others were rescued. The structure, which was being developed by Fourscore Homes, collapsed when workers were on site. Femi Osibona, the owner of Fourscore Homes, his personal assistant, and a youth corps member were among those who died in the collapsed building. OSHODI FIRE INCIDENT On May 6, a section of the Cairo market in Oshodi-Isolo LGA of Lagos state was razed by fire The fire started around 8pm and affected the fabric section of the market. The cause of the inferno could not be ascertained as there were conflicting reports, with some traders speculating that it was caused by a bomb. Goods worth millions of naira were razed as many of the shops were affected by the fire. LADIPO GAS EXPLOSION On November 16, five persons were killed and several others injured in a gas explosion that occurred at 21, Ojekunle street, Ladipo, Mushin area of Lagos. The explosion occurred in a mechanic workshop when a gas retailer was dispensing the product from one cylinder to another. The explosion destroyed at least 20 vehicles parked in the mechanic workshop. Several persons were said to have sustained injuries in the incident. THE JAH-MICHEAL TRAGEDY On December 4, eight children were found dead in a car parked on Adelayo street, Jah-Micheal, along Badagry expressway in Lagos. The children were said to have died of suffocation after they entered a black Honda Pilot parked inside the compound for some years. It was gathered that the owner of the Honda Pilot is deceased. The oldest of the eight children was 12 years old. On December 6, seven of the children were buried according to Islamic rites, without an autopsy conducted to ascertain the cause of their death. Meanwhile, the families of the deceased children said they were killed by unknown persons, insisting that they did not die of suffocation. OJODU-BERGER ACCIDENT On December 7, a truck rammed into students of Ojodu Grammar School. Initial reports on social media had suggested that several students were crushed by the truck. Some eyewitnesses alleged that the truck driver was trying to escape from some road safety officials when he lost control and rammed into the students — a claim that was denied by the Lagos sector command of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC). Police authorities in the state later said two students died in the accident, while 12 others sustained injuries. THE BOAT MISHAP On December 22, three people drowned, while 17 others were rescued when a commercial boat capsized in Badagry. The boat was said to have taken off from the Liverpool area but capsized at Imoba on the Badagry waterway. The boat was said to have developed a mechanical fault.