President Muhammadu Buhari says Mohammed Wushishi, a former chief of army staff, is a role model for soldiers. Wushishi, who served as the army chief between 1981 and 1983, died in a London hospital on Saturday. In a statement on Sunday, the president described Wushishi as “a thoroughbred professional soldier, an officer and a gentleman whose contributions to the fatherland are immeasurable”. “General Wushishi had a distinguished military career and we are proud of his impressive service to the country,” Buhari said in a statement by Garba Shehu, presidential spokesman. “General Wushishi was an epitome of discipline and dedication to service, and he was a role model for both the officers and the rank and file.” On its part, the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), in a statement, said the deceased was a pillar of strength to the organisation. Emmanuel Yawe, ACF spokesman, described the former chief of army staff as a man who believed in democracy. “General Wushishi is considered a pillar of strength in the ACF because of his love and services for the north, for Nigeria and for humanity in general,” the statement reads. “A gallant officer who received good military training both in Nigeria and abroad, rose to the rank of lieutenant general on merit and was appointed chief of army staff by President Shehu Shagari in 1981, an office he held until the end of that government in 1983. “In retirement, he devoted himself to noble causes for the unity and progress of Nigeria. “One of such causes is the ACF which he played a prominent role in putting together in its early years about twenty years ago. His commitment to ACF remained unshakeable even as his health declined in his last days. “He was for instance the chairman, leadership selection committee, and member, board of trustees, until his death. He actively and enthusiastically participated in the activities of the forum in both capacities until the end of his life. “With his death, Nigeria has lost yet another exemplary patriot and pillar of strength. His death means the number of those who selflessly sacrificed their lives to keep Nigeria one is fast depleting.” The forum commiserated with the family of the deceased, members of Kontagora emirate council, Wushishi LGA and the Niger state government over the incident.