Amnesty International (AI) has called on the federal and state governments to ensure that Borno communities are safe before internally displaced persons (IDPs) are relocated. Osai Ojigho, country director, Amnesty International Nigeria, in a statement on Wednesday, expressed concern over possible attacks by insurgents following the proposed resettlement of IDPs. The Borno government had announced that all IDP camps within Maiduguri, the state capital, would be closed down by December 31, 2021. Reacting to the development, Ojigho said interviews conducted by AI with former IDP returnees, those still living in camps within Maiduguri, and survivors showed that they are afraid to return to their communities. “Amnesty International is deeply concerned about the safety of thousands of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Borno state, who are at risk of forced resettlement as the Borno state government moves to close all IDP camps within Maiduguri by 31 December 2021, despite continued attacks by Boko Haram and ISWAP and human rights violations by the military,” the statement reads. “Returning displaced persons forcibly to villages that are not safe would be in violation of the Nigerian government’s responsibility of protecting the right to life of civilians. “Most displaced persons barely escaped from Boko Haram’s campaign of killings, abductions, looting and torture, or from the attacks, extrajudicial killings or torture in unlawful detention by the Nigerian military. They have endured years of gross human rights violations and abuses, including war crimes by the military and armed groups. “At least 6 people were killed and 14 injured in Agiri, Mafa local government area, on 30 August 2021, one month after they were resettled. Returnees in New Marte, Agiri and Shuwari have experienced multiple attacks by Boko Haram since their resettlement. “It is absolutely shocking that people who already suffered so much in the conflict between Boko Haram and the Nigerian military would further be exposed to horrendous possible violations and abuses, instead of receiving protection from the authorities. “Most of the resettled IDPs that Amnesty spoke to have little or no access to essential services like drinking water, healthcare, sanitation and live in extreme poverty. Inadequate housing and lack of job opportunities in resettled villages have further compounded their sufferings. “At least 41 people died in early October 2021 during a cholera outbreak in the resettled camp in Shuwari, Jere local government area, while 20 older people and 21 children were killed by the disease. “More than 10,000 households still living in Internally Displaced People’s (IDP) camps within Maiduguri are at risk of forced resettlement by 31 December 2021 as the Borno state government plans to continue their resettlement programme at all cost. “Amnesty International is calling on the Borno state government to abide by their obligations to IDPs under international law, and ensure all resettled individuals and people living in IDP camps have access to adequate housing, food, water, sanitation and healthcare. The government should also ensure that all children can continue their education.” Meanwhile, Babagana Zulum, governor of Borno, had said no IDP would be forced to relocate.