Usman Baba, inspector-general of police (IGP), says the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) is facing gross housing deficit as less than 10 percent of its personnel in barracks have proper accommodation. Baba spoke on Thursday at the quarter four 2021 public private partnership units consultative (3PUCF) meeting organised by the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) in Abuja. The 3PUCF forum was initiated by the ICRC to provide a stakeholder engagement platform that will enhance knowledge and experience sharing among key PPP personnel in MDAs. The IGP was represented by Zanna Ibrahim, deputy inspector-general (DIG), logistics and supply. The IGP said a good living condition is important for optimal service delivery as housing is considered a fundamental physiological human need and the foundation on which to develop higher human motivation. “It will surprise you to know that with a workforce of over 350,000 in staff strength, the NPF has less than 10 percent of its personnel quartered in befitting barracks accommodation,” he said. “The state of disrepair and integrity failure in our barracks need no emphasis and we are really in dire need of befitting accommodation to enable us tackle the art and act of policing the nation optimally. “Suffice to add that there is an ongoing initiative to recruit 10,000 constables for the next six years annually, thereby increasing the housing needs for police officers.” Baba also said the force remains resolute in following due process based on extant laws in the pursuit of infrastructural development through PPP. The IGP said the decay in police infrastructure, negative maintenance culture, years of neglect due to poor budgetary allocation, destruction of police facilities resulting from the #EndSARS protests, banditry, Boko Haram/IPOB activities are still being grappled with. He, however, said irrespective of thoe challenges, the force is seeking better collaboration with critical stakeholders toward revamping, improving and sustaining a better security architecture for the nation. The IGP’s comments come days after the federal government, as part of efforts to address housing deficit in the country, launched a portal for the sale of completed houses under the National Housing Programme (NHP). Babatunde Fashola, minister of works and housing who launched the portal, had said the houses were in one-bedroom, two-bedroom, three-bedroom and duplex categories. The cost of the buildings ranges between N7 million and N15 million, depending on what a person wants. 