Folasade Yemi-Esan, the head of service of the federation, says permanent secretaries and chief executive officers in ministries, departments and agencies will be held responsible if they fail to handle disciplinary cases against staff. In a memo with reference no: HCSF 3065/Vol.1/125 and dated December 6, 2021, the head of service said there has been a rise in the number of cases instituted against the government as a result of sloppy handling of disciplinary cases. “It has been observed with great concern that there is an increase in court cases arising from dismissal and termination of appointment of staff without proper administrative procedures by some MDAs,” she said. “This has led to avoidable litigation leading to court judgements against government with huge consequential financial burden. “In most cases, the office of the head of the civil service of the federation (OHCSF) is joined as defendant in the litigations instituted by the aggrieved staff or their unions. The consequential appearance by the legal officers depletes the limited resources of the office. “In the light of the above development, all MDAs are strongly advised to follow due process in handling staff matters, especially disciplinary cases. “As you are aware, there are useful extant rules, regulations and guidelines that guide disciplinary processes. Specifically, Public Service Rules (PSR) issued by OHCSF and “guidelines on appointments, promotion and disciplines” issued by the Federal Civil Service Commission (FCSC) are very useful. Circular, Ref. No. FCSC/CHMN/CL/17/WI.1/41 dated 24″, October, 2013, issued by the Commission, is also useful.” Yemi-Esan added that “in cases where there are doubts, the office of the head of the civil service of the federation should be contacted for guidance”. “Henceforth, permanent secretaries and chief executive officers (CEOs) whose poor handling of disciplinary matters leading to avoidable court cases, consequential financial implication and embarrassment to government shall be personally held liable,” she said. The chief of staff to the president, the ministers, the secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), permanent secretaries and all the heads of government agencies, were copied in the circular. 