Nigeria on Monday recorded 859 cases of COVID-19. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Tuesday. CDC shortens isolation period for asymptomatic COVID cases from 10 to five days The US Centers for Disease Control (CDC) has shortened the recommended isolation time for citizens with asymptomatic cases of COVID to five days — from the previous guidance of 10 days. In a statement on Monday, the CDC said data shows that a majority of COVID transmission occurs early in the course of the illness — generally in the one or two days before symptoms begin and two or three days after. The CDC also updated its recommended quarantine period for people exposed to the virus. It said unvaccinated people should quarantine for five days, followed by five days of strict mask use. “Given what we currently know about COVID-19 and the Omicron variant, CDC is shortening the recommended time for isolation from 10 days for people with COVID-19 to 5 days, if asymptomatic, followed by 5 days of wearing a mask when around others,” the statement reads. France reduce time for booster shots from four to three months France has reduced the time required to take the COVID booster shots after the second dose from four to three months amid a surge in Omicron cases. Prime minister Jean Castex also said all public gatherings will be limited to 2,000 people for indoor events and 5,000 people for outdoor events. The government said face masks will be made mandatory for outdoors in city centres. “I know that it feels like a film without ending, but a year ago we started our vaccination campaign and now we are one of the best vaccinated and best protected people in the world,” Castex said. Nigeria reports 859 cases Nigeria has reported 859 cases of COVID-19 across the country. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) says the new cases were reported in 13 states and the federal capital territory (FCT). Lagos reported 555 cases, followed by the FCT with 57 and Rivers with 44. The NCDC said 220 persons were discharged on Monday, raising the recovery figure to 212,770. Two persons died of COVID complications and the country’s fatality toll now stands at 3,024. Nigeria now has a total of 238,420 confirmed cases in the 36 states and the FCT. Israel launches first test of second COVID booster A hospital in Israel administered fourth COVID-19 vaccine shots to a group of health workers in a study seeking to determine whether the second round of boosters will help contend with the fast-spreading Omicron variant. According to Sheba Medical Centre, Ramat Gan near Tel Aviv, the study “will zero in on the efficacy of the vaccine in producing antibodies, and safety, in order to ascertain if a fourth vaccine is needed in general”. The hospital spokesperson said the study involves 150 participants who are all medical staff and results of the trial are expected to be submitted to Israel’s health ministry in two weeks. Switzerland approves J&J COVID vaccine booster Switzerland has approved booster doses for Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine in people 18 years and older after a first vaccination. Swissmedic, the county’s drug regulator, said it reviewed and approved the clinical data on safety and efficacy submitted for the booster.