President Muhammadu Buhari says Nigeria remains the most viable and attractive investment destination in Africa. Buhari said this on Saturday while addressing a trade and investment forum at Expo 2020 Dubai. The event was organised by the Nigerian Arabian Gulf Chamber of Commerce, Nigeria’s ministry of industry, trade and investment and the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC). The president said Nigeria is on the path of becoming the continent’s leading industrial and trading nation, adding that his administration has made efforts to improve the investment environment. ‘‘Nigeria’s pavilion at the Expo 2020 clearly shows why we remain the most viable and attractive investment destination in Africa,” Femi Adesina, presidential spokesperson, quoted Buhari as saying. ‘‘Our location, our natural resources, our population, and our regulations are there for all to see. Nigeria is on its way to become a leading industrial and trading nation in Africa. “To achieve this, our government focused on policies, projects and programs that support private sector investors. “We introduced numerous fiscal incentives and infrastructure projects aimed at enhancing the viability of investments. “Despite the adverse global economic environment of recent years, Nigeria’s investment environment has greatly improved both at the national and sub-national levels.” Buhari said his administration will continue to improve the business climate especially as the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) comes into full effect. ‘‘Just last month at the Intra Africa Trade fair in Durban, I reminded business leaders that most of Africa’s challenges, whether security, economic or corruption, can be traced to our inability to domesticate the production of our most basic requirements and provide jobs to our teeming and dynamic youth population,” he said. ‘‘I am pleased that this forum focuses on ‘Unveiling Trade and Investment Opportunities in Nigeria,’ and will encourage you all to keep an open mind and look beyond the challenges. ‘‘In this room, we have governors, ministers and heads of government agencies that can address all your questions and concerns. ‘‘We are here to support you and I hope you will all take this opportunity to move your investment decisions forward.”