A total of 45 farmers have been killed following attacks in communities across LGAs in Nasarawa state. The farmers were said to have been killed following clashes that led to attacks on Lafia, Obi and Awe LGA areas of the state over the weekend. Many other persons were also injured during the attacks. The killings were said to have been reprisal attacks in renewed hostilities between farmers and herders in the three LGAs. According to a statement issued on Tuesday by Garba Shehu, presidential spokesperson, President Muhammadu Buhari condemned the killing of the farmers and expressed condolences to the government and people of the state. The president, who expressed satisfaction with the immediate response of the state government to the incident, added that the perpetrators will be made to face justice. “I assure the people with all seriousness and sensitivity that this administration is doing its best to safeguard the security of people and will leave no stone unturned in fishing out the perpetrators of this senseless and barbaric incident, and bring them to justice,” Buhari was quoted as saying. Speaking on the attacks, Ramhan Nansel, the Nasarawa police spokesman, said a complaint was made on Friday that one Umaru Idrisu of Gidan Washi village in Obi LGA was killed by armed men. He said after receiving the complaint, Adesina Soyemi, the state commissioner of police, immediately directed the divisional police officer (DPO) in Obi LGA to move to the scene, He said the corpse was recovered and taken to the hospital for postmortem before it was released to the family for burial. “While the investigation was ongoing, a suspected reprisal attack was carried out by unknown persons in Hangara village, Lafia east development area in Lafia LGA and crossed over to the neighbouring Kwayero village of Obi LGA,” Nansel said. He added that a joint operation involving officers of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) and the army has been “mobilised to the affected areas to restore peace and possible arrest of the perpetrators of the dastardly act”. While addressing residents of the state on Monday, Abdullahi Sule, the governor, said his administration had launched a manhunt for the perpetrators. “There was needless loss of lives of our citizens. Such act of violence is most unfortunate, condemnable, and unacceptable and will not be condoned by this administration,” Sule said. “I am admonishing you all to live in peace with one another and to shun mischief makers looking for opportunities to cause mayhem.”