Amid the surge in infections as the country battles a fourth wave of COVID, sample collection centres across Lagos — which currently has the highest cases nationwide — are on holiday in what appears to be in the spirit of the festive season. In April 2020, Lagos had set up additional sample collection centres across LGAs in the state as part of efforts to improve testing capacity. On December 7, 2021, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos, declared that the state is “experiencing the beginnings of a fourth wave”, and within the past three weeks, over 14,000 new infections have been recorded. However, as cases continue to spike, when TheCable visited some of the COVID sample collection centres in Lagos, it was discovered that officials have been “off duty” since December 24, after the federal government announced public holidays for the festive period. This is despite concerns on the new Omicron variant and the general increasing case count, with Lagos recording over 1,500 new infections between December 24 and 27, according to data from the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). At the Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH),  Yaba, on Tuesday, patients were seen at the isolation wards but the designated sample collection centres were empty, with no personnel on site. The tables and chairs under the pavilion were coated in dust, indicating days of absence. Empty seats at IDH test centre An enquiry from the security guard established that the personnel in charge of the centres are “on holiday for Christmas” and wouldn’t resume until Wednesday. When TheCable visited the centre at Ifako-Ijaiye, meant to be at the LGA’s mini stadium, there was no activity there. The reporter then headed to the Ifako health centre for further information and was told that the official taking COVID samples “is not available” and “won’t be on seat until next week”. Ifako Ijaiye primary health centre Upon sensing the urgency for the test, one of the nurses told the reporter “to go to a private hospital and do it”. In Ikeja, TheCable discovered that both centres at the LGA are also “on holiday”. The centre at Ikeja LGA secretariat In Amuwo Odofin, there was no activity at the sample collection centre when TheCable visited. There were also no officials on site. The security guard confirmed that the workers at the centre are off duty because of the public holiday. No activity at Amuwo Odofin centre At the Mushin centre, TheCable found the place quiet, and the security guard on duty didn’t have information on when last the centre was open. He, however, said work would continue on Wednesday. Olowo LCDA secretariat At the Kosofe centre, TheCable learnt that COVID sample collection had been suspended as a result of the festive period. Speaking on the development, an official of the NCDC who didn’t want to be named said the observation was “surprising”, adding that the centres should be active to take samples considering the surge in the number of cases in the state. He, however, added that the Lagos ministry of health has “jurisdiction over such matters”. TheCable contacted Bosun Ogunbanwo, director of public affairs of Lagos ministry of health, but he’s yet to respond to questions as of the time of filing this report. VIDEO: Lagos PCR test centres ‘on holiday’ amid COVID surge#CovidTesting #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/M1UESXNwCo — TheCable (@thecableng) December 28, 2021 “> 