More than 35 persons have been killed in an attack by bandits on several villages in Giwa LGA of Kaduna state. In a statement on Sunday, Samuel Aruwan, Kaduna commissioner for internal security and home affairs, said the attacks were reported to the state government by the military and police authorities. He said according to the report, bandits attacked Kauran Fawa, Marke and Riheya villages in Idasu, Giwa LGA, leaving a total of 38 residents dead. “Houses, trucks, and cars were also burnt, along with agricultural produce at various farms,” the statement reads. “Governor Nasir El-Rufai received the reports with sadness and sent condolences to the families of the victims of the brutal attacks while praying for the repose of their souls. “The Governor also commiserated with the affected communities and directed the Kaduna State Emergency Management Agency to conduct an urgent assessment of the area towards providing relief.” Aruwan listed the names of 29 of the victims, adding that nine others are yet to be identified. Those identified are: Rabi’u Wada, Salisu Boka, Nura Nuhu, Bashari Sabiu, Lawal Dahiru, Abbas Saidu, Inusa Kano, Lawal Nagargari, Malam Aminu, Lawal Maigyad, Alh Mustapha, Lawal Aliyu, Sale Makeri, Sani Lawal, Auwal Umar, Jamilu Hassan, Badamasi Mukhtar, and Malam Jibril. Others are Lawal Tsawa, Sule Hamisu, Sadi Bala, Kabiru Gesha, Abubakar Sanusi, Saiph Alh Abdu, Haruna Musa, Lawal Hudu, Shuaibu Habibu, Yahaya Habibu, and Abubakar Yusuf. The commissioner also said “further details will be published as they are confirmed”, adding that “security agencies have sustained patrols in the general area”. The north-western state has been witnessing a surge in the activities of bandits despite the proscription of bandit groups in the country. On December 14, one person was reportedly killed and many others were abducted by gunmen along Kaduna-Zaria expressway in the state. Also, on December 3, two persons were killed, while 28 others were abducted in an attack by gunmen on a community in the state.