Abubakar Malami, attorney-general of federation, says kidnappers are now qualified to be treated as terrorists. Last Thursday, a federal high court in Abuja declared the activities of two bandit groups as acts of terrorism. The ruling was pronounced following an ex-parte motion filed by Mohammed Abubakar, the director of public prosecution (DPP) at the ministry of justice. Speaking on Wednesday during a Channels Television programme, Malami said those who kidnap using force and arms will be treated within the ambit of the terrorism act. “If you kidnap using force, using arms, you are qualified as a terrorist within the dictates and the determination of the judicial decision handed down by the court,” he said. He said such acts are “within the purview and ambit of the terrorism act” and the perpetrators “will be accordingly and decisively dealt with”. On when the court order will be gazetted, he said: “It is in the process of being gazetted but the order has been procured and obtained, it is being gazetted and the publication will follow suit thereafter. “The gazette is a formal process and it doesn’t take away the legality and effectiveness of an order or perhaps a decision of the court. “The decision of the court is effective, inherently in its own right, without necessarily awaiting the gazetting process.” ‘I’M NOT AWARE EFCC PLACED OBIANO ON WATCHLIST’ Malami also said he is not aware of the placement of Willie Obiano, governor of Anambra, on the watchlist of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The minister of justice denied that he was part of the All Progressives Congress (APC) campaign council of the Anambra governorship election. “I’m in all sincerity not aware and I don’t have to be aware because the EFCC is established by law,” he said. “Their responsibilities are demarcated by law and what they do are demarcated by law, not the attorney-general or the office of the attorney-general.” Editor’s note: The featured image, showing a cross-section of suspected kidnappers, was used for illustration.