BY TOLA OGUNNUBI A decade of fatherly presence, a decade of fatherly guidance, a decade of fatherly care, a decade of fatherly love, a decade of fatherly relationship is all I miss in this great man who impacted my life in no small way. As the first child from the rear of High Chief Isaac Ayorinde Ogunnubi, The Olisa of Ijebu-Isiwo, a renowned community leader and a respected family man I write this piece to honour his legacies in his memory. High Chief Olisa Isaac Ayorinde Ogunnubi was born on the 15th of January, 1933 by Late Pa Emmanuel Ogunmosun Ogunnubi of Yenuwa Imowe quarters of Ijebu-Isiwo. The father was the first certified and licensed lay reader under the Anglican Communion when Christianity reached Ijebu land in the year 1896. His elementary education was at Christ Church School, Ijebu-Isiwo where he obtained the first leaving certificate in December 1950. He was retained to teach in his Alma-Mata, (a rare occurrence in those days), but as a result of his exemplary moral character and a sound academic capability. I knew that someday in a far away and distant future, the cycle of life would come to a gentle close for my father. I knew that. I knew that when the time came, we would have to face it with acceptance. I didn’t doubt that for one instant. But what I could never have imagined was that we would face the tragic, sudden and devastating death of my beloved father exactly a decade today. My heart aches for the loss of my father but I stand in acceptance. For this is the nature of life. There is time for everything. And a season for every activity under the heavens. Ten years on, I am honored to celebrate the life of a very special man in my life. A man I am proud to call a father. A man who is not only my daddy but also a father. A man who I knew so well in life but of whom I am surprisingly learning more about in death. This, through heartwarming anecdotes from people across the country and beyond. People whose lives he touched through discreet acts of kindness. A selfless and sacrificial life. Stories of Empathy. Of Honour. Of Humility. Of Support. Stories that comfort us and bring us joy. My Daddy was an international figure, but it was in his role as a family man that he truly shone. My Daddy was a straight shooter, whose word was his bond. My Daddy was just an ordinary man who lived a truly extra-ordinary life. My father participated in the 3rd International Bible Contest and Conference in Jerusalem as Nigeria’s only representative, this also gave him the opportunity of visiting some of the Biblical & Historical places in Spain, Paris in France, Italy (Vatican City) in Rome, Israel, part of Lebanon and Egypt. He did Nigeria proud during that time as he was the only black man among the twenty countries that participated. The toga of responsibility of running the town fell on him when he was installed as the Olisa of Isiwo in 1983 and this he did pretty well to the admiration of all. He lived a full and active life as a bold man of artless candor. 10 years after his demise, Olisa Ayo Ogunnubi, one of the most colorful and enlightened men of his generation was a convenient peg on which to hang some reflections. He staked his life, reputation and personal comfort for his people. He was a selfless human being, a kind man, a dependable man. My father was a confidant to all those that came his way and equally to everybody he came across. Olisa Ayo was a gentle man, very patient and an understanding leader. The fact that he often held his views amid popular oppositions, dissents and even derisions shows him to be a man of unflinching courage that sometimes verges on dare devilry. It is precisely these qualities which endeared him to many that also alienated him from others. My late father was bold, but with a self-certainty that could easily be mistaken for arrogance. At no time was my father beggarly and offensively diffident in the face of his convictions, notwithstanding who may not have liked them at the time. In life my father received many titles from his people and different places in recognition of his role as their leader & worthy role model. He was a man full of courage, an iconic figure whose contributions to many lives can not be over-emphasized. He had strong leadership skills, he was a fighter with the heart of the people, and he excelled in his sojourn on this side of the divide. My father did well; his death was a painful exit of a great man who lived a great life. He was tremendously respected and influential person whose endorsement was frequently needed by so many people. Till he breathed his last, he suffered a lot of deprivations on acts of his kindness, love and own conviction. However, his deprivation did not deter him. He was a truly heroic figure of enduring historical relevance. In many ways, my father found himself in the unenviable position of the urbane, cosmopolitan and truly patriotic man, he got grudging respect & admiration from even his adversaries. His accomplishments transcend mortality. His Yes was His Yes. And His No was His No. He taught us life-long lessons in discipline and honesty. Daddy may your memory live on through your selfless humanitarian good works. May the seeds you have sown, flower and flourish. Ogunnubi is the deputy head, corporate affairs, at the Nigerian Agricultural Insurance Corporation (NAIC), Abuja.