The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has asked Nigerians not to lose hope in the country despite the current challenges. In a new year message on Friday, the opposition party said the “excruciating economic hardship” and security challenges should rekindle the resolve of Nigerians to “restore good governance in the country”. “The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) rejoices with Nigerians on the dawning of the New Year, 2022, urging them to use the occasion to rekindle the virtues of love, unity, social justice as well as the quest for good governance in our country,” Debo Ologunagba, PDP spokesperson said in a statement. “The PDP notes that surviving the year 2021 under the repressive, treasury-looting, completely rudderless and lying All Progressives Congress (APC)-led administration not only calls for a sober reflection but also for an unwavering determination to rescue our nation from misrule. “It is indeed a miracle that our nation survived the last six years of massive human rights violations, abuse of process, extra-judicial killings, stagnated infrastructure, excruciating economic hardship, escalated terrorism, mass killings and unbridled treasury-looting that have characterised the arrogant and incompetent APC administration.” The PDP called on Nigerians to use the opportunity of the new year to “put aside all forms of divisiveness, fear and narrow-mindedness and pursue a new beginning; to patriotically confront the challenges of bad governance and work as one people to salvage our nation in line with the Rescue and Rebuild mission of the PDP”. The party advised the APC-led government to “use the new year to review their anti-people policies, end their corruption and take urgent steps towards economic recovery by adopting a more transparent and inclusionist approach to governance; investing more in our productive sectors and being open to suggestions and constructive criticisms from Nigerians”. “On security, the APC government must get committed to the fight against terrorism by adopting proactive measures including extensive intelligence gathering for tactical operations,” the PDP said. “Furthermore, Nigerians expect the Buhari Presidency and the APC to use the New Year to apologise for their atrocities by showing empathy to the families of the victims of mass killings under their watch and preparing to exit our political scene in 2023.” The PDP said it remains committed to “leading the charge to rescue and rebuild our country”. “This mission is paramount in our collective quest for a prosperous and secure nation,” the party added.