Rivers United have alleged that its players and officials received death threats from fans of Egyptian’s Al-Masry ahead of their CAF Confederation Cup encounter on Sunday. The Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) club raised the alarm in a statement on its official Twitter page on Wednesday. River United had defeated Al-Masry 2-1 at the Enyimba International Stadium in the first leg of the CAF Confederation Cup play-offs last Sunday. Ahead of the second leg, the Nigerian club claimed that “in various official social media posts and their corresponding fans’ comments have threatened to hurt members of Rivers United during their visit.” The Port Harcourt-based club also alleged that they are plots by the Egyptian side to “manipulate the COVID-19 test of Rivers players to weaken the team” ahead of the clash. Egyptian Embassy deny Rivers United visas, as Al Masry continue threats@CAF_Media @CAF_Online @thenff @channels_sports — Rivers United FC (@RiversUnitedFC) December 1, 2021  “Egyptian Embassy denies Rivers United visas, as Al Masry continue threats,” the statement read. “In what is fast unfolding as yet another ugly chapter in African football as Rivers United has decried the antics of Egyptian side Al Masry ahead of this weekend’s CAF TotalEnergies play-off return leg clash in Alexandria. “The Pride of Rivers raced to a 2-1 victory in the first leg at the Enyimba International Stadium in Aba and know a draw or victory will be good enough to progress into the group phase of the competition. “Ahead of this weekend’s encounter, Rivers United has uncovered plots by Al Masry to unsettle the team, speaking on the progress of preparation, Media Officer of Rivers United, Charles Mayuku, revealed that some members of Rivers United contingent for the tie have been denied an entry visa into Egypt by the Egyptian Embassy, including two journalists. “In addition, Al Masry football club in various official social media posts and their corresponding fans’ comments have threatened to hurt members of Rivers United during their visit. Threat statements like “we will kill you,” “welcome to hell,” and photos of knives, machetes, and flares dominated comments below Al Masry’s official post. “To rub salt to wound, Rivers United has also gotten wind that Covid-19 test manipulations will also be employed to further weaken the resolve of the team. “To this effect, Rivers United has drawn the attention of Africa’s football governing body, CAF in writing, through the Nigeria Football Federation, as well the Foreign Affairs Commission and the Nigerian Embassy in Egypt to this unsavoury and barbaric scheme.” River United will depart Nigeria on Thursday for Sunday’s encounter, which is billed to kick off at 5 pm. The winner of the fixture will proceed to the group stages of the CAF Confederation Cup.