Africans Rising, an organisation that focuses on promoting peace and justice, says African leaders need to do more to discourage attacks against journalists and activists. Muhammed Lamin, co-coordinator of the movement, said this during the Africans Rising award ceremony held on Monday. Lamin said such attacks will not deter journalists and activists from performing their duties. According to him, the organisation has, through its campaigns, ensured the release of “over 80,000 journalists and activists” from prisons across Africa. “We have lost a lot of our compatriots through bullets, through detentions, through torture and all forms of human brutality put on them by our governments,” he said. On her part, Wangui Goro, co-chair of the movement, said the award is to recognise the efforts of young African activists who have contributed to promoting justice and good governance. “The movement is not an enemy of government but one with a vision that is in line with the African Union Vision 2063 that spells out politically what Africans want in line with constitutions of countries,” she said. “The AU has Vision 2063, which spells out the Africa politically that we want. So, we are just pushing that agenda alongside the constitutions of our countries. “This is a political framework of Africa itself. We are not anybody’s enemy. We are hoping on our governments and supporting them. “We are excited at this event where, in the past year, young African activists raised their voices and brought positive changes to their communities despite the mounting challenges of global health and political crises. “However, we are inspired by their selfless activism and Africans Rising, for justice, peace and dignity, comes together each year to acknowledge and celebrate their accomplishments through the Africans Rising activism awards.” Those who were honoured included Wilson Atumeyi, a Nigerian who won the activist of the year category, while Joice Zou, a poet from Angola, got the artistic activist of the year award.