The Zamfara government has barred officials of ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) from speaking to the media on policies and programmes of the state. According to NAN, Ibrahim Dosara, Zamfara commissioner for information, said this on Thursday while addressing journalists in Gusau. Dosara said the Zamfara government will “centralise information management” to curtail the spread of fake news that could worsen insecurity in the state. “This is in view of the security situation in the state and the mismanagement of information where everybody takes his own opinion and chips in on behalf of government,” he said. ”This further aggravates the issues of security challenges in the state, and the executive council, in one of its resolutions during its last meeting, decided to centralise information. “Council took the decision so as to have control and to avert the series of misinformation which is leading to further aggravating the insecurity in the state. “Henceforth, it’s only the ministry of information or the commissioner for information that is allowed to speak on behalf of the government, while the special adviser on media to the governor is the only person allowed to speak on behalf of the governor. “These two people are the custodians of information of the government of Zamfara state as far as the present predicament is concern. “We also appeal to journalists to take it as a working tool that is making easier for you to have access to information you are looking for to write your reports. Anybody that speaks to you on behalf of government, if it is not the commissioner for information or the SA to the governor on media, that information is invalid as far as Zamfara state government is concerned.” Meanwhile, Bello Matawalle, governor of Zamfara, has approved the appointment of Musa Mailafiya as the new director-general of public enlightenment, media and communications, government house. In a statement issued by Kabiru Balarabe, secretary to the state government, the appointment is with immediate effect. Mailafiya replaces Yusuf Gusau, who is now the All Progressives Congress (APC) state publicity secretary.