The Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI), the umbrella Muslim body in Nigeria, has called on the Muslim faithful to observe a special prayer against incessant killings and other criminal activities in Nigeria. In a statement by Khalid Aliyu, secretary-general of JNI, the organisation explained that Du’a (supplication) is “the greatest weapon of a believer” and a means “in reaching Allah with complaints, requests, needs and intervention at difficult and trying times”. JNI said the call for the prayer became necessary owing to the insecurity challenges facing the country, particularly in the north. “To the Muslims, Du’a is sine qua non in all circumstances of our lives, especially in moments of grief which we have now, unfortunately, found ourselves in Nigeria, as a result of our misdeeds, corruption and political recklessness cum arrogance,” the statement reads. “Owing to the above, His Eminence, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, CFR, mni, the Sultan of Sokoto and the President-General, JNI, use this medium to call on the Nigerian Muslim Ummah to engage in sustained supplications/prayers at this moment of grief, through Qunootun-Nawazil(special prayers at calamitous periods in the last Raka’at of each obligatory prayer and non-obligatory prayers). “This call has become imperative bearing in mind that human lives have continued to be exterminated and even immolated unchallenged as we saw in Beni-sheikh, Kaga local government area of Borno state and Gidan Bawa, Isa local government area of Sokoto state. “Muslims are therefore implored to fervently and faithfully resort to Allah, by engaging in: (i) Al-Qunoot in the last Raka’ah of each obligatory and non-obligatory prayers, specifically to seek intervention from Allah (SWT); (ii) observance of Adhkar(remembrance of Allah); (iii) supplications in Sujood (prostrating position) in all circumstances and (iv) Du’a (prayers) at all times, particularly that there is seeming anxiety and palpable fear that has elicited many citizens’ minds in recent time. We should sincerely devote time at nights and call unto Allah, the Responder to prayers.” The organisation further called on Imams and the leadership of all Muslim organisations in Nigeria to commence special prayers to seek Allah’s compassion for Nigeria and the north in particular “The Muslims should eschew all forms of disobedience to Allah (SWT), repent and go back to the ways of the Lord of the universe,” JNI added. “Therefore, we call on all Muslim brethren to see it as a point of duty to always pray against kidnapping, Boko Haram cum ISWAP insurgency, political rascality and all forms of criminalities during each supplication to Allah, the Most Knowledgeable.” The organisation also called on government at all levels to step up to their responsibility of good governance.