Abdullahi Sule, governor of Nasarawa, says the efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari will be more appreciated when he leaves office in 2023. Sule said this on Tuesday while speaking with state house correspondents after a meeting with the president. The Nasarawa governor commended Buhari for the Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano gas pipeline project, adding that the present administration has done much for the country. “I told the president that some of your efforts for the country will be more appreciated when you leave office,” he said. “Today, you are the architect of the Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano gas pipeline. Recently, Nasarawa State signed an MoU after our gas roundtable in the state capital Lafia, where the top management of NNPC were around. “We discussed gas utilisation and we are bringing our own experience of what happened with the West African gas pipeline, where it was tapped from Sagamu into Ikeja and all the industries there are utilising gas. “So, for a country like Nigeria that has over 200 trillion standard cubic feet of gas, to say that somebody is building a gas pipeline for the utilisation of gas, I don’t think that is a small thing. But a lot will not understand this until may be when the president leaves office and in future. “When we begin to have LPG everywhere for cooking and LNG so that most of our vehicles will convert to gas rather than petrol, many cannot see now what is going to happen tomorrow and by that time, they will say who did this and they will be told it’s President Buhari and people will bless him.” Speaking on his visit to the presidential villa, the governor said he came to express appreciation to Buhari on the support received in the area of security. “I came to express our great appreciation to the president for the great support we have continued to receive in the area of security,” he added. “You must have heard there were several joint operations of the special forces, the military, police, air force and navy in the two local government areas that are bordering Abuja, Toto and Karu. “The various operations have been very successful. When we heard recently that some of our schools were being targeted, we privately approached and the right actions were taken. We thank God that we have been able to dislodge those ones. “Also, we are here to express our happiness that as a result of some level of peace we have in Nasarawa state, we have been tagged as a state that is currently number one in sesame seed production, number two in yam production, number two in cassava and number five in rice production in the country.”