Operatives of the Nigeria police intelligence response team and Taraba state police command have arrested 11 kidnapping suspects in the state. In a statement on Sunday, Frank Mba, spokesperson of the police, said the suspects were arrested for their criminal roles in the recent trend of kidnapping in Taraba. Mba said seven AK-47 rifles, two Beretta pistols, 121 rounds of live ammunition of different calibre, four magazines, masks, illicit drugs and other incriminating items were recovered during raids of various hideouts of the suspects. He added that all the suspects will be charged to court on completion of investigations. “Police investigations revealed that the suspects, who have also been on the wanted list of the Taraba Police Command, are members of a notorious kidnap syndicate and have been evidentially linked to the recent upsurge in incidents of kidnapping in the State, including the deliberate and calculated attacks on security personnel,” the statement reads. “The suspects, Luka Adam, Shuaibu Nuhu, Moses Amos, Peters Mashi, Ahmadu Mallam, Adamu Mohammed, Dahiru Mallam Dalha, Gambo Isah, Sanusi Ahmadu, Mallam Mohammed Mauludu, Ibrahim Idi, all indigenes of Taraba State, were arrested by the Police team from their various criminal hideouts. “Investigations also revealed how two (2) of the suspects, Gambo Isah and Sanusi Ahmadu masterminded the killing of the Police Sergeant and left a Police Inspector with gunshot injuries in their recent operation to enable them escape arrest having abducted some victims in Jalingo recently. “Investigations further revealed that the modi operandi of the suspects include trailing individuals – Business owners, Government Functionaries, motorists with flashy and exotic cars, etc – to their houses and thereafter planning and executing the kidnap of such persons. They also collect huge sums of money as ransom from relatives and friends of their victims before their release. “The Police in the course of investigations equally identified and raided various criminal hideouts where kidnap victims are usually kept. All the kidnap victims held hostage at the various hideouts were carefully and successfully rescued unhurt and reunited with their families. Meanwhile investigators are intensifying efforts at arresting other suspects currently at large.”