The Lagos government has unveiled a mobile water testing laboratory and a water check laboratory as part of efforts to prevent cholera in the state. According to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), as at November 21, the total number of suspected cholera cases was 103,589, while the total number of suspected cholera deaths is 3,566. Lagos has recorded 165 suspected cases of cholera, with three still active. The water check and the mobile laboratories are said to be equipped with facilities that can conduct water tests within five minutes. The project, which will be run by Lagos State Water Regulatory Commission (LASWARCO), was commissioned on Wednesday. Speaking at the unveiling, Tunji Bello, the state commissioner for environment and water resources, said the development is a testament to the commitment of the administration of Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the state governor, to the delivery of sustainable development goal six (SDG 6) targeted at ensuring availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all. “Indeed, this check laboratory is purposely established to improve the capacity of the Lagos state water regulatory commission for effective and efficient monitoring of the quality of water produced and served to Lagosians and the quality of effluent discharged from wastewater treatment into the environment; consequently aiding the sustainable use of water resources in the state,” he said. “Without doubt, the establishment of this check laboratory will ensure regulatory compliance, control test intensity level, repeatability and objectivity.” The commissioner added that the development would further strengthen the pursuit of ensuring compliance to the drinking water quality standards of World Health Organisation (WHO) and improving the water quality in the state. In her welcome address, Funke Adepoju, executive secretary, said the construction of the first state-owned water check laboratory was approved by governor to aid the commission in the discharge of its responsibilities with the aim of preserving the health and wellbeing of residents. “This check laboratory will ensure among other things; regulatory compliance, control test intensity level, repeatability and objectivity through the offering of affordable rates for laboratory service, irrespective of class or creed,” Adepoju said.