Musikilu Mojeed, editor-in-chief of Premium Times, has emerged as the president of the Nigeria chapter of the International Press Institute (IPI), a global network that defends media freedom. In a statement on Friday, Raheem Adedoyin, IPI executive board member, said Mojeed emerged unopposed during a session of the general assembly of the Institute, held in Abuja on Thursday. Ahmed Shekarau, general manager, business and strategy of Media Trust Limited, was elected as secretary. Shekarau won the majority of the votes cast at the election, defeating his only opponent, Qasim Akinreti, deputy director, digital media, Voice of Nigeria (VON). Rafatu Salami, assistant director, digital media, VON, was announced as treasurer. According to the statement, the general assembly mandated the newly constituted executives to work towards filling the vacant positions of deputy president, assistant general secretary, financial secretary and legal adviser, which were not filled for lack of nominations. The oath of office for the new executives was administered immediately by Zainab Musa, a lawyer. In his acceptance speech, Mojeed expressed appreciation to all members of IPI Nigeria for the confidence reposed in them, and gave the assurance that the new exco would work harder towards deepening press freedom and accelerating free speech in Nigeria, and the world at large. “We will also work at deepening collaboration with newsrooms and other organisations in the defence of press freedom in Nigeria and elsewhere,” he said. “We will implement measures and programmes that will make ours a stronger voice as we firmly stand up for media freedom, freedom of speech and the free flow of news and information whenever, wherever and however they are threatened.” “Our team will also take a holistic look at the key issues confronting our newsrooms today and undermining press freedom one way and another. The issues include those concerning ethics, regulation, sustainability, credibility, and fake news.”