Darius Ishaku, governor of Taraba, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to assist the state in preventing an invasion by the Ambazonian separatist group from Cameroon. Ishaku spoke on Tuesday with state house correspondents after his meeting with Buhari at the presidential villa in Abuja. In November, suspected Ambazonia fighters reportedly attacked Manga community in Takum LGA of the state. The invasion of the community by the separatists reportedly led to the displacement of residents of Manga village, which is said to be 20 kilometres away from Kashimbilla Dam. The Ambazonian agitators are seeking to secede from Cameroon. Speaking on Tuesday, Ishaku said he requested assistance from the federal government to tackle security and other developmental issues in the state. “First is that I came to see Mr President on security issues. If you remember, some weeks back, there was an attack in Taraba state, specifically at Manga, which has boundary with Cameroon. It was invaded by the Cameroonian Ambazonia separatists. They killed 11 people, including the chief of the small town,” he said. “I have not been able to see Mr President because of his busy schedule and his travels. “So, I’m fortunate today to have an appointment with him, to brief him on details about what transpired and the need to give us some assistance in that axis. It was a very usual discussion and I am happy.” Asked if he was confident that there will not be a repeat of such attack, he said he was hopeful that Buhari will intervene. “That’s why I’m here to see Mr President because he alone can give the order for us to strengthen our border there by sending security men along the border. Once we have that, I think we will secure that border,” he said. “So, there is absolute need to secure it and strengthen it. And this particular area of Manga is by the lakeshore because of the damming of Kasimila; the water has gone almost like six kilometres into Cameroon. So, people now find it easy just to come in and go out. “So, we might also need a naval base to be able to secure, police and monitor the people that go in and out. And also, an immigration post. All these are requests and I think Mr President has assured me that he will do something about it. I’m very hopeful.”