The parents of late Sylvester Oromoni’s deserve the sympathy and kindness of the Nigerian people. The world needs to know the facts and the truths of this case. We need to know who is lying and who is actually liable. A range of key questions pops up as objectivity scans available details of the sad and unfortunate experience. It is pertinent to confirm if late Sylvester actually played soccer (football) with his friends. The authorities of Dowen College say he did. Interestingly, a student of the school is said to have admitted that he was the person who collided with Sylvester in the course of the soccer game. Late Sylvester is said to have visited the school’s medical facility for medical attention. As one probes this case deeper, the need to investigate this aspect of the widely circulating story about the sad incident stands out. Sylvester Oromoni Junior is said to have been bullied (gang-beaten) by a group of senior students, and that he mentioned the names of the seniors before his sudden and painful passing. Going by the story that a substance was forced into late Sylvester’s throat after the gang-beating, it goes to say that there was a struggle in the process – Sylvester resisted! A credible, non-biased autopsy is capable of answering this particular question and more, in relation to the substance that was said to have been forced into his guts. In addition, the general public was told that the authorities of Dowen College called Sylvester’s parents to come and take him home for medical attention. Nigerians need to know the name and location of the medical outfit that Sylvester’s parents took him to for medical attention. We hear an X-ray was done on Sylvester based on the tough pains he said he was feeling in his waists and in other parts of his bone structure. According to Dowen College in its press release, late Sylvester’s guardian took him (Sylvester) for an X-ray and informed the management of the school that the result of the X-ray revealed that no part of his body was broken or injured. The medical facility that did the X-ray needs to tell the world its observations and findings independent of what late Sylvester’s guardian is said to have told the school authorities (of Dowen College). This case should be made to serve as a deterrent to the ill-treatment of students in our schools. There is no gainsaying that the students lodged in the boarding facilities of Dowen College are a breathing testimony to the existence of a contract between the school and the students’ parents. The facts and truths of this case deserve to be known. To be continued… Smart Okotie Jnr, a public affairs commentator, wrote in from Lagos. He can be reached via smart.okotie@yahoo.com