Iyorchia Ayu, incoming national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), says the outgoing national working committee (NWC) has done its best in discharging its responsibilities. Ayu spoke on Wednesday at a valedictory session organised for the outgoing NWC members at the party’s headquarters in Abuja. The national chairman-elect said the outgoing NWC members have played a significant role in making the party become bigger and stronger. “Those of us who formed this party on extremely challenging circumstances had a vision that this party will be so big and so powerful, that it will be impossible for anybody or any circumstance to destroy it midstream,” he said. “I think that vision has been justified by the role you have played because the party is bigger and stronger. “We know it is very difficult to run a party as an opposition. But I think you have discharged your responsibilities to the best of your abilities.” Ayu also said his NWC would learn and work with all members of the party. “We must work as a team; there will be no divisions. We will not allow any divisions, and that will be extended to all other members of the party,” he said. “We intend to run an inclusive administration and that will include all members of the current working committee that is about to hand over to us. “It will extend and broaden the frontiers of administration to include every party leader in every state.” On his part, Yemi Akinwonmi, the outgoing acting national chairman, thanked all the party members for their support, which he said led to a successful tenure. “I have to thank all of you for the cooperation you gave us during the life of our tenure without which our success story would have been very difficult,” he said. “I have to say without any fear of contradiction that we have done our best by playing the role we had played that brought us to this position. “On behalf of our great members of the NWC, I sincerely welcome the incoming members, this time under the chairmanship of the Iyorchia Ayu. “I pray to God to guide them through 2023 so that with them we can reclaim our 2019 stolen mandate. Secondus came in 2017 with the mandate to give us (PDP) the country. He tried his best but could not. If Ayu comes and is able to do that, what is important is for PDP to rule. So by the grace of God, Ayu will take us to Aso Rock villa.” THE CRISIS THAT ALMOST TORE PDP APART The Uche Secondus-led NWC which was elected on December 10, 2017, was supposed to run till December 10, 2021 but things fell apart. Secondus’ travails began in August after seven national officers of the party resigned and accused him of “poor leadership”. The imbroglio erupted into a full-blown crisis when multiple court orders were issued against Secondus, resulting in his removal from office, and Akinwonmi, deputy national chairman (south), was appointed in his stead. Although Secondus vowed not to withdraw his case in court challenging his removal from office, the party went ahead and conducted its national convention and elected new NWC members in October. While Secondus’ appeal is pending in court, the newly-elected NWC will take their oath of office on Friday.