The All Progressives Congress (APC) faction led by Kabir Marafa in Zamfara has condemned an attack by thugs during the preparation for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) congress in the state. On Monday, thugs destroyed voting materials, nomination forms, vehicles, chairs among others, which had been arranged in preparation for the PDP congress. Speaking on the incident, Mahdi Gusau, Zamfara deputy governor, had asked Bello Matawalle, governor of the state, to apologise over the incident and fish out the perpetrators. “I don’t know how we’re supposed to feel safe in Gusau metropolis if this is the kind of security we can get from the city of Gusau. I wonder what the people are experiencing in the rural areas,” Gusau said. “I’m calling out to him to come and apologise or point out the people responsible for these atrocities.” In a statement on the incident, Bello Maradun, spokesman of the Marafa APC faction, quoted Sirajo Maikatako, the chairman, as asking the police to investigate the incident with the view to forestalling such occurrence in the future. “We are using this medium to disassociate and distance the Senator Marafa-led faction of APC from this undemocratic act against opposition groups,” the statement reads. “It is on record that Senator Kabiru Marafa (CON) is an advocate of rule of law and the principle of ‘live and let others live’ from the testimonies of his uncountable public engagements as a senator of the republic of Nigeria and the leading figure of APC in Zamfara State. “On this note, the leadership of Senator Marafa faction of APC condemns in totality the reported action against opposition PDP in the state and consider the action as barbaric, savage, desperate and primitive. “We also call on the leadership of the police at state, zonal and national levels to thoroughly investigate the matter and make the perpetrators and their sponsors face appropriate wrath of the law. “We equally call on the police to use this incident as a red flag and be on alert to avoid the occurrence of such cowardly act of desperate politicians without fear or favour.” The factional chairman commended the PDP in the state on its maturity in the face of the provocation. “We also congratulate them on holding the congresses and emerging with the new party leadership in the state,” he said. “Notwithstanding, we hope that the new leadership of PDP in the state will in due course understand the progressive ideals of APC, especially the commitment of Senator Marafa of building bridges beyond party affiliations to rescue Zamfara State from the grip of insecurity.” Meanwhile, after the congress which eventually held at another venue, Bala Mande was elected the new chairman of the party in the state.