President Muhammadu Buhari has inaugurated a multi-billion naira complex donated to the University of Maiduguri (UNIMAID) by Muhammadu Indimi, chairman of Oriental Energy Resources Limited. Buhari unveiled the complex on Thursday in Maiduguri, the Borno capital. The complex comprises a centre for distance learning, an international conference centre, a conference room, examination hall, resources areas, laboratory, staff offices and a recreational centre. Speaking at the event, Buhari commended Indimi for his commitment towards strengthening the education sector and urged other notable Nigerians to contribute to the development of the nation. “I am highly impressed with what I have seen at this state-of-the-art centre for distance learning and auditorium sited here, the University of Maiduguri,” he said. “I am told that this international conference hall has 1,300 seats. The high quality standard of this edifice is a major contribution by alhaji Muhammadu Indimi. “This intervention will benefit not only students from Borno and the north-east, but also students from all parts of Nigeria.” On his part, Indimi said the complex was built to show his commitment towards improving the education sector. “I believe that the centre will help the university in the way it delivers learning, training, and skills, as well as to those who will be taking their courses remotely,” he said. “I thank the university for this opportunity and partnership. I will continue to support the programmes and initiatives of this great university. This project, Mr. president, is one of my token contributions to education. I hope and pray that this will inspire others to look in the same direction.” Babagana Zulum, Borno governor, thanked Indimi for his support to the state. “Words cannot convey the debt of our respect and gratitude to alhaji Muhammad Indimi for his statesmanship, for his generous philanthropy especially given today’s intervention, to enhance tertiary education for the people of Borno,” he said. “We congratulate alhaji Muhammad Indimi for being honoured with Mr. president’s special commissioning of his generous donation.”