Nigeria on Friday reported 1,584 cases of COVID-19. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Saturday. France reduces duration for COVID booster shot from five to four months France says it will reduce the duration between the second dose of the COVID-19 vaccination and the third dose from five to four months effective January. Prime minister Jean Castex spoke at a media briefing on Friday. Castex said people will be required to show proof of vaccination to enter some venues, while big public parties and fireworks will be banned on New Year’s Eve. He said even those who have been vaccinated, should test themselves before attending end-of-the-year parties. “We cannot allow that the refusal of a few French people to get vaccinated affect the life of the entire country,” Castex said. Nigeria reports 1,584 COVID cases Nigeria has seen a surge in its daily cases of COVID-19 since the index case of the Omicron variant was reported in the country on December 1. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) says 1,584 cases were reported across the country on Friday. The agency in its update for December 17, said the new cases were logged in 10 states and the federal capital territory (FCT). The NCDC said 28 persons were discharged, and that one person died of COVID complications. The country’s death toll stands at 2,984. With the newly reported cases, Nigeria has now confirmed a total of 222,655 cases. Egypt reports first three cases of Omicron Egypt has reported its first cases of the Omicron variant of coronavirus. The health ministry said three cases of the variant were confirmed on Friday. “Two cases are not showing any symptoms, while the third suffers mild symptoms,” the ministry said. WHO lists Covovax as ninth COVID vaccine for emergency use The World Health Organisation (WHO) has listed Covovax, a vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India under licence from Novavax, for emergency use. In a statement on Friday, WHO said the vaccine is part of the COVAX facility portfolio, and will therefore give a much-needed boost to ongoing efforts to vaccinate more people in lower-income countries. Omicron: Canada lifts ban on travel from Nigeria The Canadian government has lifted the ban imposed on travel from 10 African countries — including Nigeria. The development comes almost three weeks after the Canadian government banned 10 African countries — including Nigeria — over concerns relating to the Omicron COVID variant. Aside from Nigeria, other countries affected by the Canada travel ban are Botswana, Egypt, Eswatini, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa and Zimbabwe.