Douye Diri, governor of Bayelsa, has constituted an 11-member technical committee to investigate the cause of the recent oil spillage at Nembe LGA. A wellhead in the Santa Barbara South field had blown on November 5, spewing oil and gas into the water bodies and causing environmental disaster — for many weeks after the initial leak. The wellhead is a joint venture between Aiteo Eastern Exploration and Production Company (AEEPCO) and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). Last week, Aiteo said it had finally put out the leak. On Wednesday, Diri appointed Biriyai Dambo, the state attorney-general and commissioner for justice, as head of the committee, while Lugard Tare-Otu, his special assistant, will serve as secretary. The committee has the mandate to investigate, assess the impact, study, and review the cause of the oil spill. The committee is also saddled with the responsibility of taking all necessary actions to pursue adequate compensation for the affected communities, clean up all affected areas, as well as put in place all necessary measures to forestall future oil spills in the state. He charged the committee to work according to its terms of reference in the interest of the people of the state. He said members were selected based on their pedigree in various fields and should not compromise in their duty to ensure justice for the people and their environment. “I have carefully selected you, and I know the pedigree of every one of you in this committee. There is no room for compromise, and the only interest is that of the people and the government of Bayelsa,” the governor said. “I am sure you will do everything according to your terms of reference; to bring justice to our people and to ensure that our environment and our ecology will not be tampered with at the whims of anybody no matter how highly place. “This is the first time in the history of oil and gas exploration in Bayelsa, specifically in Nembe, that oil spilled from the Christmas tree directly and cannot be controlled for more than one month. “The spill thereby caused untold hardship to our people. It damaged the ecology, the environment, the flora and fauna of our state as well as aquatic life and the livelihood of our people. “Let me again call on NEMA to do the needful. We have seen situations that were lesser than what we saw in Nembe that it was promptly responded to.”