Lai Mohammed, minister of information and culture, says the narrative that President Muhammadu Buhari has not shown enough empathy towards the security situation in the country is “glib” talk. The country has been recording a spike in killings and destruction of property in recent times. Addressing a press conference in Abuja on Wednesday, Mohammed said if Buhari had not assumed office in 2015, the security situation in the country would have been worse. The minister said although banditry and kidnapping have added to the worsening state of the country’s insecurity, the president has continued to provide the needed leadership. “Today, we only look at the current situation, without wondering what would have been had this president not taken the bull by the horns, as far as security is concerned,” he said. “Banditry and kidnapping have added to the state of insecurity, President Buhari has also continued to provide quality leadership in order to ensure that our security agencies decisively tackle the cankerworm of insecurity. “No administration in Nigeria’s recent history has provided the security agencies with the hardware needed to tackle insecurity as that of President Buhari, in addition to raising the morale of our security men and women. “Only last week, the president commissioned an armada of naval boats and ships in the latest effort to enhance our nation’s maritime security. The skewed narrative in certain quarters that the President has not shown enough empathy is glib talk. “President Buhari is leaving a legacy of security, infrastructural development, economic prosperity and social cohesion for Nigeria. “This may not seem obvious today, amidst daunting challenges, but posterity will be kind to this president.” Mohammed said the recent surrendering of Boko Haram members is a testament to the government’s efforts to restore security. “While there is nothing wrong in the citizens expressing their concerns over the insecurity in the country, we wish to say that the use of incendiary and insulting words, especially by leaders of all hues, can only overheat the polity and heighten tension,” he said.