The Rotary Club of Lagos has announced a postponement of its president’s dinner earlier scheduled for Sunday. Wale Agbeyangi, president of the club, in a statement on Sunday, said the decision was reached at an emergency meeting convened by the club over the recent events at Dowen College. Sylvester Oromoni, a 12-year-old male student, was alleged to have been attacked by “some senior colleagues” for refusing to join a cult group. Although the school has denied the claim, the college has been shut down by the Lagos government, while investigation into the incident is ongoing. Agbeyangi said the decision to suspend the president’s dinner was as a mark of respect over the student’s death, and considering that the college houses one of its clubs. “I regret to inform you all that the President’s Dinner earlier planned for tonight at the Metropolitan Club has been postponed,” the statement reads. “This decision was reached today at an emergency meeting of the Board, necessitated by the recent sad event at Dowen College, our partner school of many years and which houses one of Rotary District 9110 most active Interact Clubs, the Interact Club of Dowen College, sponsored by the Rotary Club of Lagos. “Over the years, the Rotary Club of Lagos and Dowen College have jointly executed projects in many areas of focus, including community development, supporting education and protecting the environment. Only recently, the school’s Interact Club emerged the overall best (1st position) and also clinched the 3rd position in the Rotary District 9110 Spelling Bee Competition. “Therefore, we at the Rotary Club consider as our children the students of Dowen College and are deeply saddened by the unfortunate event of a loss of life and the attention it has continued to garner in the public domain. “We deeply regret any inconvenience caused by the postponement of the dinner. “At this difficult time, our thoughts are with the students, parents, staff, management and the governing board of Dowen College, and in particular, the directly affected family.”