Faisal Shuaib, executive director of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), says unvaccinated people have a greater likelihood of dying from COVID-19. Shuiab spoke on Tuesday in Abuja shortly after President Muhammadu Buhari received his booster shot. He said COVID-19 is now mostly a disease of unvaccinated people, adding that the vaccine has the ability to protect those vaccinated from “severe” forms of COVID-19. He said data has shown that out of every ten people who died of COVID-19, eight are unvaccinated. “The evidence is there. Over 8 million Nigerians have taken the vaccines safely. They are well, they are going about their normal businesses,” he said. “And what we’re seeing from the data is that COVID-19 is now mostly a disease of the unvaccinated out of every 10 people that have died, the data shows that eight of them are unvaccinated. “So there’s a greater likelihood of dying from COVID-19 if you’re unvaccinated. What Mr. President has done today is again to indicate to all Nigerians that federal government does everything to make sure that only safe and efficacious vaccines are brought into Nigeria and when they are brought into Nigeria. “We will double check to make sure that it fits the very high standards that have been set by NAFDAC. “When you go to any mass vaccination site, one thing that should be clear in your mind is that this vaccine that is going into your body is safe and is going to protect you against severe forms of COVID-19. It will also protect you from dying from COVID-19.” Shuiab said Nigeria now has enough COVID-19 vaccines to get all citizens vaccinated. “Now we have vaccines. A few months ago, we had a challenge of no vaccines because of the global supply shortage. Now we have more than enough vaccines to get all Nigerians vaccinated,” he added. “So I urge all Nigerians to seize the opportunity and get vaccinated just like Mr. President has shown leadership.” On the booster shot, he said: “To get the booster shot, all you need to do is go to the nearest health facility or any vaccination centre, with a vaccination card and you will get the booster shots. “We’re making the vaccines available all across the country. So you don’t have to go too far from where you live or from where you work to get the booster doses.”