FixPolitics Initiative and OrderPaper Advocacy Initiative, two civil society organisations (CSOs) in Nigeria, have partnered to increase citizens’ awareness on legislative accountability. In a joint statement issued on Monday, the CSOs said they signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) on December 15 to collaborate and improve citizen enlightenment and engagement. The partnership is expected to “advance mutual and collective objectives” aimed at promoting transparency, accountability, and inclusion in Nigeria’s legislature. “Realizing the importance and impact of partnerships, both organizations put pen to paper on Wednesday to advance mutual and collective objectives which centre on the need to jointly promote transparency, accountability, and inclusion in Nigeria’s legislature, put a spotlight on the activities and performance of Nigeria’s federal Legislature and Legislators and embark on awareness and sensitization efforts on the work of the legislature and how citizens can hold their lawmakers accountable,” the statement reads. “Other components of the partnership are to jointly engage the Legislature in advocacy activities and programmes and to jointly identify, support and prepare trustworthy Nigerian youths that are willing to contest parliamentary elections in the future.” While signing the MOU, Anthony Ubani, executive director of FixPolitics, said: “Building effective partnerships is essential for efficiency and impact. Collaboration strengthens our capacity and ability to achieve our mandate and deliver results. “This partnership with OrderPaper Advocacy Initiative will, among other things, enhance our ability to help us reach a greater number of citizens in our effort to empower them with the right information designed to aid them in making informed choices in the exercise of their franchise. It will also add value to our programming and advocacy in legislative and electoral reforms.” In his remark, Oke Epia, executive director of OrderPaper Advocacy Initiative, commended FixPolitics for contributing its quota in improving Nigeria’s democratic landscape through its initiatives. He added that “there is no better time than now for all actors to synergise to improve our democracy for the common good of the citizens”.