The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) says its operatives have arrested four persons — Ezekwem Lawrence, Mohammed Aliyu, Suwidi Isiaku and 62-year-old Basset Emmanuel — with 182,000 tablets of tramadol (225 mg) in Lagos. According to a statement by Femi Babafemi, NDLEA spokesperson, the suspects were arrested on December 16 after operatives raided their hideout in Abule Egba area of Lagos. The NDLEA said one Eze Joy Chioma, a pregnant woman, was also arrested for alleged possession of 1,442 kilograms of “imported skunk” in Lagos. Chioma, aged 27, was said to have been arrested on Friday, when operatives raided her store and home in the Ojo area of Lagos, while another suspect identified as Michael Oroke, was arrested with 29 kilogrammes of the illicit drug in the same location. The NDLEA spokesperson said operatives also carried out raids in Rivers, Kogi, Benue, Adamawa, Anambra, Edo, Ekiti and Ondo and seized several illicit drugs. “In similar raids across eight other states of Rivers, Kogi, Benue, Adamawa, Anambra, Edo, Ekiti and Ondo, over 4,000 kilograms of assorted illicit drugs were seized,” the statement reads. “On Saturday 18th Dec, during a routine stop-and-search exercise along Aba/Port Harcourt Expressway by Obigbo, operatives intercepted a consignment of Tramadol in a commercial Toyota Hiace Bus, with a waybill addressed to one Shadrach Udechukwu. “A follow-up operation led to Udechukwu’s arrest and different quantities of Heroin, Cocaine, Methamphetamine, Cannabis Sativa, Tramadol, Exol-5, Swinol, and Diazepam recovered from him. “In Kogi State, one Timi Sunday was arrested with 95.945kg of cannabis at Egba town, and Musa Sani with 10.5kg cannabis along Okene-Lokoja Highway, while Yaro Bala was arrested with 65kg cannabis on the same road. “No fewer than 20,000 capsules of Tramadol coming from Onitsha, Anambra state was seized in Otukpo, Benue and a suspect arrested, while in Adamawa, a search operation in a house at Ajiya Street, Jimeta led to the arrest of a female suspect, Maryam Yunusa, with 16 pinches of Cocaine. “A raid at Success line, Marine modern market, Onitsha led to the seizure of 234kg cannabis and a suspect arrested, while in Edo State, Francis Eferi was arrested in Okpuje, Owan West LGA with 481kg cannabis and Emmanuel Amu with 81kg cannabis at Sobe. “In Ekiti, 1,420kg cannabis was recovered from Ara in Ikole LGA, while in Akure, Ondo State, operatives arrested one Mrs Grace Henry in her residence at Itamo Igoba, with 573kg cannabis. In other parts of the state, 450kg cannabis was seized along Ipele-Idoani Road, and 420.5kg cannabis at Ogkogu Camp, Ipele, both in Owo LGA.” Speaking on the operations, Buba Marwa, NDLEA chairman, commended the officers for their resilience and asked them not relent in their effort in tackling drug trafficking.