Muktar Ahmed, a member of the house of representatives, says excise duty on carbonated drinks will reduce the level of diabetes in Nigeria. Ahmed, a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) representing Kaduna south federal constituency, spoke on Monday at a public hearing organised by the house of representatives committee to consider the 2021 finance bill. Carbonated drinks are beverages that contain dissolved carbon dioxide, and are said to be composed of a high amount of sugar. Speaking at the public hearing, Zainab Ahmed, minister of finance, had said the federal ministry of finance, budget and national planning is studying trends before extending “acceleration of projected increase in tariff and excise duties on tobacco, alcohol and carbonated drinks to fund vital expenditure on health, education and security”. But in his remarks, the lawmaker said efforts should be accelerated on the issue to ensure that tax is introduced on carbonated drinks because it will generate revenue for the government and also “reduce the level of diabetes” in the country. “The issue of excise duty on carbonated drinks, honourable minister and the team, you really have to accelerate on this issue,” he said. “As a member of the customs committee, we are really looking at this area as one of the revenue lines that we hope to get more money for the customs and we want to pursue that in 2022. “But with this submission from you, it appears that we have to wait for a little time. So, please accelerate action. If for nothing else, at least it will reduce the level of diabetes in this country.” According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), diabetes is a chronic, metabolic disease characterised by elevated levels of blood glucose (or blood sugar), which leads over time to serious damage to the heart, blood vessels, eyes, kidneys and nerves. WHO notes the most common type of the disease as type 2 diabetes — usually in adults — which occurs when the body becomes resistant to insulin or doesn’t make enough insulin. Type 2 of the disease is sometimes inherited and linked to family history, but environmental factors are also said to play a role. However, while Ahmed said introducing a tax on soft drinks will tackle diabetes, checks by TheCable showed that there are other sources of sugar intake including alcoholic drinks, biscuits, buns, cakes, dairy products, and savoury food.