Champion Mall, e-commerce platform, says Nigerians in the diaspora can now shop for items on its website and get them delivered to Nigeria. The company said the new service will commence on Saturday, December 4, 2021. Speaking with journalists, Wilson Olayinka, Champion Mall’s global manager, said that the company would launch the first phase of its services that allows Nigerians living abroad to shop for items from the comfort of their homes and have them delivered to their families and loved ones in Nigeria. “We are not just another online store. We are the Champion Mall and from December 4, 2021, which is the official launch date, Nigerians in the diaspora will be able to order a wide range of products from groceries, pharmaceuticals, fashion items, electronics, and other gadgets, from sellers in the UK, Dubai, and Nigeria that are registered on the e-Mall and have them delivered to their families and loved ones in Nigeria,” he said. According to Olayinka, this service would allow Nigerians abroad to look after their families and loved ones back home without relying on errand persons who may not fulfil the order as expected. He noted that a unique selling point of Champion Mall’s product offering is that shoppers have control of what they’d like to order without stressing about how to send the items or money to buy the items for their families and loved ones in Nigeria. Olayinka stated that the platform’s payment gateways are secure and integrated with the Stripe payment system, which allows customers to use their international credit and debit cards as well as local cards using the Paystack payment gateway for local currency payments. He further emphasised Champion Mall’s commitment to offer quality items to its customers at competitive prices. Olayinka assured that its buyer’s protection policy guarantees that customers will get exactly what they ordered or will have their money returned to them in full. He added that the e-commerce platform plans to launch the second phase of its services for Nigerians residing in Nigeria to shop and enjoy all its offerings.