The Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN) says all medical graduates who schooled abroad and seek to take the council’s assessment examination will undergo a six-month mandatory attachment programme. Applicants who are Nigerian citizens are required to pay a non-refundable fee of N900,000, while non-citizens are to pay N1,400,000 for the programme. According to a statement on the council’s website, the first attachment programme will commence in January and run till June. MDCN said the teaching hospitals for the programme include Olabisi Onabanjo University (south-west), Enugu State University (south-east), University of Port Harcourt (south-south), University of Ilorin (south-west), Aminu Kano University (north-west) and University of Maiduguri (north-east). “The Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN) hereby informs all Foreign Trained Medical and Dental Graduates, Parents and Guardians, other Stakeholders and the General Public that with effect from December 2021, intending candidates for Council’s Assessment Examination will be required to undergo a six-month mandatory attachment programme before they can be eligible to sit for the MDCN pre-registration examination,” the statement reads. “The first Attachment Programme will start in January and end in June 2022 while subsequent ones will be fixed and advertised accordingly. “The programme shall be for candidates trained in ALL Countries (other than Nigeria) and whose training institutions are currently listed in the World Directory of Medical Schools (www.wdoms.org). “Candidates must hold medical/dental degrees from approved medical and dental training institutions that shall be verified by the Electronic Portfolio of International Credentials (EPIC). “Candidates will be required to provide evidence of eligibility to practise medicine/dentistry in their individual country of training. A current practising licence and a Certificate of Good Standing from the country’s medical/dental regulatory authority (not from the Training Institution) shall be required.” 