The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) says the country is currently experiencing a fourth wave of the COVID pandemic. Ifedayo Adetifa, director-general of the NCDC, announced the development in a statement on Monday. “Nigeria has recorded a 500% increase in the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases over the past two weeks across the country caused by the Delta and Omicron variants,” the statement reads. “As of 19th December 2021, a total of 223,887 cases and 2985 deaths have been recorded in Nigeria across all 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory. “The country is now in a fourth COVID-19 wave.” The director-general announced that the centre is launching its yuletide season campaign themed #CelebrateResponsibly as part of the #TakeResponsibility campaign. Adetifa said the campaign is “to promote adherence to COVID-19 preventive measures during this festive period”. He urged Nigerians to adhere to recommended measures stipulated by NCDC and other public health authorities as they celebrate Christmas and the new year. “The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) is launching its yuletide season campaign themed #CelebrateResponsibly as part of the #TakeResponsibility campaign which began in February 2020,” he said. “#CelebrateResponsibly focuses specifically on measures Nigerians need
to take to protect themselves and loved ones from COVID-19 during this period. “The Federal Government of Nigeria, through the presidential steering committee on COVID-19, the Federal Ministry of Health, as well as NCDC and its partners, are therefore intensifying risk communication efforts to remind Nigerians of the risk we face and need to take collective responsibility to reduce transmission of the virus. “The response to COVID-19 requires a whole-of-society approach. Therefore, individuals, families and institutions also need to play their part in protecting each other by ensuring adherence to COVID-19 public health and social measures. “Critically, Nigerians are urged to adhere to recommended measures by NCDC and other public health authorities, as they celebrate Christmas and New Year.” Meanwhile, the development comes less than five months after the federal government announced that the country had entered a third wave of the pandemic.