The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) says its operatives have arrested three “fake security agents” with over 427 kilogrammes of illicit drugs in Borno and Abuja. The NDLEA disclosed that the suspects were wearing uniforms of security agencies in order to escape scrutiny. Femi Babafemi, NDLEA spokesperson, in a statement on Thursday, however, said it had not been confirmed if Yakubu Kotri, one of the suspects, is a serving military personnel as widely reported on social media platforms. The names of the other suspects were given as Salisu Mohammed and Dada Adekunle. “Three drug traffickers wearing uniforms of security agencies to escape scrutiny have been arrested by operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, with over 427 kilograms of illicit drugs in Borno state and the federal capital territory, Abuja,” the statement reads. “Yakubu Kotri, impersonating as a military personnel, was arrested on Wednesday, 29th December, driving a Gulf car loaded with Cannabis Sativa weighing 208 kilograms on his way to Bama, Borno state. “Another suspect, Salisu Mohammed who adorned the uniform of another security agency to traffic Tramadol to Bama, was also nabbed by narcotic officers on patrol on the route the same day. “Although the pictures of the arrest of Yakubu Kotri in uniform have been trending on social media since Wednesday, the agency wishes to disclaim such because the suspect has not been confirmed to be a serving military personnel. “In the same vein, another impersonator, Dada Adekunle was on Wednesday arrested along with his 60-year-old accomplice, Usman Isa, in Abaji area of FCT with 15.843kg Cannabis, while 20kg of the same drug was seized from Alfred Aminu who was intercepted at Gwagwalada same day. “Meanwhile, in Plateau, a commercial DAF truck with registration number GME 874 YX, coming from Onitsha, Anambra state to Mubi, Adamawa State was intercepted on Tuesday, 28th December, along Jos-Bauchi Road. Upon search, 7.8kg of 225mg Tramadol was recovered. “Also on Tuesday in Yauri area of Bauchi state, operatives arrested one Shaft’atu Abubakar with 174 kilograms of cannabis and 2.1kg Diazepam, while a suspected bandit, Usman Sani, was arrested in Dan-Anacha town, Gasol LGA, Taraba with two pistols and ammunition.”