Sani Musa, senator representing Niger east, has declared his bid to run for the office of the All Progressives Congress (APC) national chairman. Speaking on Friday at a media briefing held in Abuja, Musa said if elected, he would “re-engineer” the structure of the party. Although February 2022 has been fixed for the party’s national convention, the APC has not officially zoned the position of chairman to any region. The senator said the national caretaker committee led by Mai Mala Buni, Yobe governor, has so far done a “wonderful” job. “Leadership is an awesome and great responsibility that requires a high sense of innovation and vision as a mechanism to change our nation for more advancements,” he said. “If reposed with the responsibility to lead the party, I will endeavour to justify every day and in every act the trust that will be placed in me. “Bringing a new beginning to our party leadership will create a new voice and direction to APC and by extension, create the best platform for an enduring leadership for our country for the good of all. “If given the opportunity to lead the party I will completely re-engineer the internal structures and workings of the party and make it adaptive to the yearnings and aspirations of members and Nigerians. “I will be adaptive to a participatory and affiliative work style that will usher visionary and pacesetting leadership that will transform the party to a democratic institution that Nigerians will proudly continue to embrace. “If we hope to maintain credibility over time, then we must adhere faithfully to the same organisational expectations that our context asks of our teams, for me my words are my bonds.” Musa said the party has had issues because its leaders are pursuing personal gain. “Our problems recently have been that our party leaders have knowingly abandoned even the most basic morality when pursuing personal gain,” he said. “Most moral leadership problems do not arise from misjudging complicated ethical issues. Most arise from something much simpler: wanton disregard of common decency in pursuit of naked self-interest.”