The Osun police command has warned residents of the state against selling, buying, or using firecrackers and other explosives during the yuletide. Five days ago, the federal capital territory (FCT) police also banned the sale and use of fireworks before and during the yuletide. In a statement on Saturday, Yemisi Opalola, the command’s spokesperson, said the use of fireworks and other explosives may constitute a threat to the security of members of the public. Opalola added that hoodlums might explore it to carry out nefarious activities. “It is incumbent on the command to remind members of the public that the ban on the use of fireworks/crackers (knockouts, bangers, and other explosives) is still in force,” she said. “Members of the public are therefore warned to desist from selling, buying, and making use of these items as they are dangerous to person(s) and property. “This can cause a distraction that may constitute a threat to the security of members of the public, most especially at worship centres, motor parks, events, relaxation and recreation centres. “This warning becomes imperative as miscreants/hoodlums may use the opportunity to carry out their nefarious activities under the guise of celebration.” She said to ensure a hitch-free festive season, the commissioner of police has ordered area commanders, divisional police officers, and tactical commanders to embark on intensive patrols across the state. “They will embark on intensive patrols on all the major highways, inter-state boundaries, motor parks, recreation, worship centres and in all nooks and crannies of the state before, during, and after the yuletide,” she said. “The good people of the state are advised to go about their lawful businesses without fear. “They are enjoined to cooperate with security personnel that are deployed for these special assignments to bring to fore the sole aim of community and visibility policing. “Residents and law-abiding citizens are encouraged to give prompt and useful report of any suspicious movement by calling the following distress numbers: 08039537995, 08123823981, 08075872433 or report to the nearest police station.”