Boss Mustapha, secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), says the emergence of the Omicron COVID-19 variant “highlights how fragile and vulnerable we are globally”. He said Nigeria’s response to the pandemic is one of the most effective governance strategies ever deployed in the country. Mustapha spoke on Monday at the national COVID-19 summit held in Abuja. “The multi-sectoral approach to the national response has proven to be one of the most effective strategies ever deployed for governance operations in Nigeria,” he said. “It facilitated expansive and in-depth consideration of issues as well as speedy decision making. Our development partners from the private sector and the international community gave this strategy overwhelming support. “Because of the confidence of our partners in the process, Nigeria was able to erect critical infrastructure nationwide, procure scarce medical equipment, test kits, and personal protective materials, etc., at a time when the global economy had virtually shut down.” Speaking on the travel ban imposed on Nigeria as a result of the discovery of Omicron cases, he called on countries to adopt a protocol that will be in line with risk-based concerns. “The emergence of the Omicron variant of concern highlights how fragile and vulnerable we are globally. It is therefore important that we maintain pressure on the COVID-19 virus until we deny it the opportunity to continue to circulate and mutate,” he said. “Our overall focus will be to scale up vaccination of our population to reach targets set by the WHO. Nigeria needs to continue to implement public health and social measures in place combined with effective vaccination now that we are getting the vaccines. “With the emergence of Omicron, Nigeria, like some other countries, has become targets of restrictive measures. This has to be only on a strong basis of science and data. “Nigeria joins the WHO and other countries in calling on countries of the world to implement risk based international protocols that are in line with international health regulations whilst we are developing a new pandemic treaty that will avert this type of situation. “Global health security is our collective responsibility irrespective of our economic status.”