Nyesom Wike, governor of Rivers, has cautioned tertiary institutions against conferring doctoral degrees indiscriminately. According to a statement by Kelvin Ebiri, his spokesman, Wike said this on Saturday in his address at the convocation ceremony of the Rivers State University (RSU). While commending the RSU for the growth it has achieved, he warned universities against “awarding doctoral degrees like chieftaincy titles” to students with questionable character who have not followed due process. “This practice must stop in all Rivers state government-owned tertiary institutions as we demand greater character, commitment and responsibility from staff and management to the vision and fundamental objectives of university education,” he said. “First of all, the programmes that you offer must equip the students with relevant skills, entrepreneurial or otherwise so that on graduation they can start their own businesses and professional practice and become creators of jobs from the beginning; and not jobless seekers of elusive jobs. “This is the only way you can be recognised globally and be able to benchmark, collaborate and partner with other top universities across the world in applied research and innovation relevant to the local and international labour markets. “We will also continue to support the university to strengthen its staffing needs and the provision of enhanced digital infrastructure to deliver quality education and training to improve competitiveness and employability of our graduates.” The governor has awarded James Daniel, a person with disability who bagged a PhD degree in philosophy the sum of N50 million, as well as an appointment as a lecturer in the Rivers State University. Wike said Daniel was awarded based on his academic excellence and for serving as a source of inspiration to other students living with disability. He commended the governing council of the institution for the achievements recorded and congratulated the 4,970 graduates for their accomplishment.