Nigeria on Monday recorded 167 cases of COVID-19. Here are five updates about the pandemic this Tuesday. Study shows mixing COVID vaccines gives better immune response A UK study on mixing COVID-19 vaccines shows that people who received the first dose of an Oxford-AstraZeneca or Pfizer-BioNTech shot then followed by a Moderna jab as the second dose nine weeks later have a better immune response. The study conducted by Oxford University and published in the Lancet medical journal also found that a dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine followed by a Moderna shot was better than two doses of the standard Pfizer-BioNTech jab. “We found a really good immune response across the board… in fact, higher than the threshold set by Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine two doses,” Matthew Snape, one of the researchers, told Reuters. “I think the data from this study will be especially interesting and valuable to low- and middle-income countries where they’re still rolling out the first two doses of vaccines. “We’re showing… you don’t have to stick rigidly to receiving the same vaccine for a second dose… and that if the programme will be delivered more quickly by using multiple vaccines, then it is okay to do so.” Boss Mustapha: We have enough COVID vaccines to cover 70% of Nigerians Boss Mustapha, secretary to the government of the federation (SGF), says Nigeria has enough vaccines that can cover over 70 percent of the country’s population before the end of 2022. Mustapha said this on Monday at the national COVID-19 summit which was held at Muhammadu Buhari Conference Centre in Abuja. “Nigeria has invested in enough vaccines that can cover over 70% of our population before the end of 2022. These vaccines are safe and efficacious, hence it is better and safer to be vaccinated against this virus, now,” he said. US city to impose COVID vaccine mandate on private employers Bill de Blasio, mayor of New York City, says all private employers should mandate COVID-19 vaccinations for their workers by December 27. The mayor said the measure is a “preemptive strike” against the spread of the Omicron variant in the US largest city. De Blasio said the mandate is aimed at preventing a surge in new COVID-19 infections during the winter months. “We in New York City have decided to use a preemptive strike to really do something bold to stop the further growth of COVID and the dangers it’s causing to all of us,” de Blasio said in an interview. “All private sector employers in New York City will be covered by this vaccine mandate as of December 27,” he added. Nigeria records 167 cases Nigeria has recorded a 204 percent surge in its single-day COVID cases. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) said 167 infections were recorded on Monday in six states and in the federal capital territory (FCT) — the agency had reported 55 cases on Sunday. According to the breakdown, Lagos recorded the highest number of infections on Monday with 113 cases followed by the FCT with 22 infections while Plateau logged 16 cases. Kano reported four infections, while Abia, Kaduna and Rivers recorded three cases each. Bauchi reported two cases and Delta logged one infection. The agency said Monday’s infections include a backlog of cases from Kaduna, Abia and Delta. The NCDC data showed that 28 persons recovered from the infection, and no fatality was recorded. Nigeria’s now has 214,789 confirmed cases, 207,478 recoveries and 2,980 deaths. World Bank: Our funding helped deliver 100 million COVID vaccine doses David Malpass, president of the World Bank, says the bank’s funding helped deliver 100 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines around the world and this will reach the 150 million mark by the end of December. Malpass said rich countries should fulfil their pledge of donating COVID vaccines to poor countries to effectively tackle the pandemic. “Readiness and deployment are critical. Ample funding is available and we’re working with partners… to address the current crisis and prepare for future ones,” Malpass said.