Sharon Ikeazor, minister of state for environment, says the federal government has approved a new national biosecurity policy to protect the environment. Announcing the development on Friday, Ikeazor said the approval was given at the special session of the federal executive council (FEC) held on Thursday. She said the policy will enable early detection, rapid response and recovery from biosecurity incidents. “The federal executive council (FEC) has approved the national biosecurity policy and action plan 2022 to 2026,” she said. “This is to ensure, among other things, biosecurity for the protection of the environment and human health from harmful biological agents and to protect our socio-economic development. “The policy document aims to foster an integrated and holistic biosecurity strategy that will be implemented through a one-health approach for the prevention, early detection, rapid response to biothreats and recovery from biosecurity incidents. “This policy is to ensure synergy and harmonisation among biosecurity stakeholders for effective and efficient operations of the national biosecurity systems. “It is to ensure that all aspects of national and international agreements, conventions, guidelines and other instruments on biosecurity are duly taken into consideration.” Ikeazor, who said she was pleased with the approval, said it gives the country a proper, comprehensive and workable document for environmental protection. She explained that effective synergy among stakeholders will promote efficient prevention, preparedness, response and mitigation system against bio-threats. “The amendment mandates the agency to put measures in place to ensure biosecurity in Nigeria. After going through several reviews, stakeholders validated the draft national biosecurity policy and action plan in September 2021, before it was presented to the FEC for approval,” she said. “We are very pleased with this approval in the environment sector, which gives the country a proper, comprehensive and workable document. “The document will tackle biosecurity issues and ensure that bio-threats are properly contained and even eliminated.”