The Chinese government has offered to send a high-level delegation of criminal investigation experts to meet with Nigerian security agencies. Cui Jianchun, Chinese ambassador to Nigeria, said the Asian country is concerned about the insecurity in Nigeria. Jianchun spoke with journalists on Wednesday, in Abuja on the sideline of the October 1, China-Nigeria friendship award to students of Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. The award is part of the Chinese embassy’s programme tagged “October 1 Scholarship for Nigeria-China Friendship”. Jianchun said the move by China is part of its support to tackling the insecurity bedeviling Nigeria, and that the security experts are expected to arrive in Nigeria soon. “China’s central government is really concerned about the security situation in Nigeria and also the Chinese nationals in Nigeria,” Jianchun said. “We are working hard on how we can get support from China. I think that it really concerns every Nigerian, and I believe this is not only about the Nigerian people and government but also, we need international support. “So now, the central government made the decision to send a high-level delegation from the criminal investigation experts with real experience. “They come to Nigeria and get to talk to the people, the government, how can they find a way to work together to overcome the challenge they are facing.” On his part, Kabiru Bala, vice-chancellor of Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, thanked the Chinese government for its support and the Nigerian government for its efforts in curbing insecurity. Bala said the university campus has been secured to a large extent following the interventions of the government after the institution requested reinforced security. “Let me sincerely appreciate the efforts of the government. When we began to see signs of insecurity around the campus, we made a special visit to the inspector-general of police, to other government agencies, security agencies and I am happy to say that the response was quite appreciated,” Bala said. “There are things that I might not mention publicly but just to say the response was very good. “The inspector-general put a lot of reinforcement around the campus with equipment and men. So far, the campus is secured.”