Douye Diri, governor of Bayelsa, says the magnitude of oil spillage at the Aiteo in Nembe LGA is worse than what happened in the Gulf of Mexico oil spill. In a statement by Dan Alabrah, chief press secretary to the governor, Diri disclosed this after visiting the site on Wednesday. Sharon Ikeazor, minister of state for environment, had described the site as a war zone. While Ikeazor said it had been brought under control with necessary personnel and equipment deployed, the Bayelsa government said the oil spill — which started November 5 — was still spewing oil into the water bodies. The Santa Barbara South field is jointly owned by Aiteo Eastern Exploration and Production Company (AEEPCO) and Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). According to the statement, the government said that about two million barrels of crude had reportedly been spilled into the river, polluting the environment, thereby affecting biodiversity. “Today happens to be a very dark day for me. What we have seen, I believe, is worse than what happened in the Gulf of Mexico. In all my life, I have not seen such magnitude of oil spillage,” Diri said. The governor called on the federal government and operators of the oil field to immediately take contain the spill, saying that the source of living of the indigenous people was also affected by the spill. “Our people are endangered. Our people’s source of livelihood is endangered,” the governor said. “I empathise and sympathise with the people of Nembe on behalf of the government and people of Bayelsa State. “I like to give you hope that we will stand shoulder to shoulder with you. Your government will activate every constitutional means to arrest and redress this magnitude of the oil spill. “I, therefore, call on the Federal Government, the operators of the oil field, NNPC and AITEO to immediately look for superior technical know-how to contain and stop the spread of the oil. “For Bayelsa, the only thing we know how to do best is fishing. Today, our own fishing route is endangered. I equally call on the Federal Government to immediately react and ensure that our fishing route is safe.” Diri also decried the exclusion of host communities in the administration of the oil industry. According to him, the oil spill problem would have been addressed if the indigenes were part of the operations of the oil field. To relieve the suffering of the indigenes, the governor directed the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) and the ministry of health to immediately provide relief materials and healthcare services to the people. Ekpeleyai Oruwari, chairman of Nembe council of chiefs, appealed to the government and the operators of the oil well to stop the spill. He also called for the provision of relief materials to reduce the plight of the people. The governor was accompanied by lawmakers, including Fred Agbedi, the member representing Sagbama/Ekeremor federal constituency in the house of representatives, and Abraham Ingobere, speaker of the Bayelsa house of assembly.