The Akin Fadeyi Foundation (AFF) in collaboration with the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) and MacArthur Foundation have kickstarted a series of anti-corruption sensitisation workshops across FRSC training centres. In a statement on Thursday, the foundation said the first phase began at the FRSC academy in Enugu and Delta states. The participants were said to have been trained on accountability and leadership. “The first set of these anti-corruption trainings launched at the FRSC Academy, Udi, Enugu state and the Marshal Inspectorate Training School, Owa-Alero, Delta state on the 1st and 2nd of December, 2021,” the statement reads. “Over 500 cadets and trainees in both locations had the opportunity to engage with fundamental information on anti-corruption, accountability, and effective leadership as a crucial launching pad in their careers at the corps.” Akin Fadeyi, AFF executive director, said: “The project is in line with our behavioural change objectives aimed at an infusion of the core values of transparency and integrity-driven service delivery in the newly recruited FRSC cadets and trainees. “It also supports the organisation’s strategic agenda to deepen its work with the FRSC in a partnership that commenced in 2019 with the adoption of the FlagIt app by the corps. “The collaborative goal of these series of training is to strengthen the internal capacity of FRSC officers to tackle micro-level and institutional corruption, promote accountability and ensure effective service delivery to road users.” In his address, Boboye Oyeyemi, corps marshal of the FRSC who was represented by Abah Charity Ojoma, said the corps has always shown “zero tolerance” for corruption. He said: “Over the years, the leadership of the corps has demonstrated zero tolerance for corruption in the system through rigorous policy formulation and implementation processes, dynamic and result oriented operational activities and above all, continuous monitoring, surveillance and evaluation procedures in line with the established processes, procedures and services.” He said the FRSC has arrested over 70 of its staff in reaction to public outcry on corrupt tendencies by some of its officers. Kayode Olagungu, commandant at the Udi academy, encouraged the new FRSC recruits to resist any form of temptation that could lead to corrupt behaviour and harm the integrity of the corps.