Ifeanyi Ejiofor, counsel to Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), has alleged that the Department of State Services (DSS) has refused to grant his client comfort in its facility. On December 2, a federal high court in Abuja ordered the DSS to allow Kanu to have the “maximum possible comfort” in custody. This was after Kanu’s lawyer complained about the poor condition the IPOB leader was allegedly subjected to, including “not being allowed to change his clothes since he was arrested”. Ruling on an oral application, Binta Nyako, the presiding judge, had said Kanu should be allowed to have a bath whenever he wants, change his clothes, eat properly and practise his faith. But in a statement issued on Tuesday, Ejiofor alleged that the DSS has treated the court order with the “greatest disdain”. “We observed with dismay, and indeed very unfortunate and worrisome that notwithstanding the far-reaching orders made by Her Lordship in the open Court on December 2, 2021, the detaining authority being the DSS have in their usual style, flouted and/or ignored the said court orders,” the statement reads. “We were informed by our client – Onyendu Mazi Nnamdi Kanu – that none of the pronouncements made by the Court on December 2 2021 has been obeyed by the DSS. “They have unrepentantly continued to treat the orders of the Court with the greatest disdain. Our client — Onyendu Mazi Nnamdi Kanu – further informed us that he had not eaten anything since yesterday (Sunday). “Apparently, he is being punished because we dared to complain to the court about the condition under which he is being held in custody. But, very, unfortunately, this should be the height of their reckless affront to the orders of the court. “At the time Her Lordship made these far-reaching orders in open court, I did not mince words in informing the Court that the operatives of the DSS will flout these orders, pursuant to which the court specifically told me to come back to her with these facts if her order is flouted.” Ejiofor said Kanu’s legal team will approach the court on Wednesday to present the “terrifying development, which is totally unacceptable, grossly condemnable, and cannot be tolerated”.