The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) says it has generated N2.3 trillion revenue in 2021, exceeding the target by N63 billion. Timi Bomadi, deputy national public relations officer of NCS, disclosed this at a stakeholders and media engagement on trade facilitation in Lagos on Monday. Bomadi said that the agency exceeded the N1.67 trillion revenue target for 2021. “The 2021 has been eventful for NCS, as it achieves major milestones, in spite of the debilitating effect of COVID-19, which has had negative effects on the socio-economic lives of people around the globe,” he said. “In the current year, the NCS has already exceeded expectations in revenue generation by going beyond the target set for it by the government, achieving N2.3 trillion. “Also in its anti-smuggling activities, the Service has made landmark seizures of absolutely prohibited items and items prohibited by trade.” NCS said it seized illegal animal parts worth N22 billion. “In August, the service made seizures of 17,137 kg of pangolin scales, 44 kg elephant tusks and 60 kg in pangolin claws all valued at over N22 billion,” NCS said. “This was made possible through active collaboration between NCS, US, British, and German officials who helped in tracking the suspicious shipment. “It further led to the arrest and prosecution of some foreign nationals and their local collaborators. “In October FOU operatives in zone A seized 751 bullets concealed in garri sacks, while arms, ammunitions and military uniforms were intercepted at Tin Can port Lagos in September 2021 just to mention a few. According to Bomadi, warehouses in all border formations, belonging to NCS, are overflowing with seizures of rice, groundnut oil, used clothing and used vehicles amongst others. “At Apapa Area I Command, through the cooperation of other sister agencies and the Nigerian Navy a landmark seizure of cocaine with a DPV of $54 million was made,” he added. “This seizure was unique for the fact that the illicit substance was found in one of the components of a bulk carrier of sugar. “In the same command, 97 containers carrying illicit, expired drugs and other offensive goods with a Duty Paid Value (DPV) of N17.5billion naira was seized.”