Oppo Nigeria has unveiled the new Oppo Artificial Intelligence (AI) smart glasses and its first foldable phone, Oppo Find N at the first Nigerian edition of the company’s Inno Day event which was held in Lagos. The mobile telecommunication brand showcased some cutting-edge technologies including the latest retractable camera, Find N foldable phone, smart glasses, and other products driven by Artificial Intelligence (AI), Augmented Reality (AR), and the 5G technology. The Find N — Oppo’s first foldable flagship smartphone – is reported to be the result of four years of intense research and development, coupled with six generations of prototypes. Jennifer Okorhi, Oppo Nigeria Marketing Manager, explained that the OPPO Inno Day is a global flagship launch event which started in 2019 around the globe. The 2021 edition of the flagship launch was held for the first time in Lagos in December. The brand reiterated its commitment to helping gadget users work and play smarter, with all the premium products and top-notch quality mobile communication devices for Nigeria consumers. “Our goal for our Inno Day is to introduce the cutting-edge and innovative products that we have launched, which we will continue to do going forward, our goal is also to communicate the ability of OPPO to deliver premium and quality products to our target audience in Nigeria, products that can stand the test of time and also serve their needs as they enjoy our devices,” Okorhi said. Okorhi and some celebrities at the Oppo Inno Day 2021 in Lagos Speaking during the event, Hakeem Fahm, the commissioner of science and technology in Lagos,  commended OPPO Nigeria for its commitment to providing innovative technological ideas that provide tools for people to work and empower themselves. “This is a very great event, and more importantly for me as we all know, innovation is the practical way of bringing new ideas and as a government, we placed a lot of value on the innovation because that’s the only way we can move forward,” he said. “We cannot be stagnant but have to embrace new technology and leverage the power of technology to do what we are doing that is why the government of Governor Babajide Sanwo-olu, is committed to making Lagos state a 21st-century state and we are doing a lot of things to bring technology in the state”. Tech YouTubers, including Eric Okafor (Knewkeed) and Tobi Ayeni (Miss Techy), were also present at the event to discuss the future of mobile technology in Nigeria. Tech YouTubers at the Oppo Inno Day Speaking on the newly launched Oppo innovations, Okorhi noted: “For us at Oppo, we are very mindful of the expectation of our target market in Nigeria, so our devices are designed with our customers in mind. “We create products that stand the test of time, that are durable, and also fit into the individual lifestyles of our users. Our phones are durable when it comes to battery, design, interior, and exterior, and also the other features that come with our phone.” The OPPO smart glass is built around the monocle waveguide design. Based on OPPO’s design philosophy, Air Glass features free-flowing curves, which give birth to its lightweight and minimalist appearance. It also has an innovative application as a Teleprompter, which allows an adaptive text display to make presentations at work or in public hitch-free. As of October 2019, OPPO said it had achieved 40,000+ global patent applications while the number of patents granted exceeded 14,000. Since the establishment of OPPO 17 years ago, OPPO said it has established a presence in over 50 countries and introduced a wide range of smart devices to consumers globally.