The residents of Kayode and Ogunmokun streets in Mushin LGA of Lagos state have raised concerns over the “unsafe” installation of electricity equipment in front of their houses. In a letter to Ikeja Electric, the power distribution company (DisCo) in charge of the area, the residents said the installations were done without considering the safety of the residents whose houses were still undergoing renovation. The residents further stated that the Ikeja DisCo will be held responsible for any loss of lives as a result of the installations. “Our clients’ properties were recently acquired by Lagos State Government through LAMATA for urban regeneration project which is aimed at ameliorating traffic congestion and subsequently, the upscaling of general infrastructural development in this axis of the State,” the letter read. “We like to draw your attention to the recent unconscionable replacement/ reinstallation of electricity poles and conductor wires along the recently compulsorily acquired properties at Kayode/Ogunmokun Streets, Mushin. As you may also have observed, the reinstallation works had been done without taking due cognisance of the duty of care owed to the occupiers of the properties it is aimed to serve. “Electrical Poles are erected with no regard to Building Code. The Poles as erected with the conductor wires connected are rather too close to the properties and you will recall that renovation work is still on going. Please find attached the pictorial evidence for ease of reference. “The fact that the reinstallation exercise is necessary should not becloud the fundamental and moral obligations and/or requirements to at least protect the lives and remaining part of properties of the dispossessed people.  You are hereby put on notice to redress/reinstall the poles and wires in accordance with Electrical Standards and safety codes, failing which Ikeja Electricity Distribution Company will be held fully responsible for any loss of lives and/or damage to properties resulting from such criminal actions to the fullest extent permitted under both Criminal and Civil law. “We therefore request that you take another quick look at this in the hope of addressing same swiftly. The beauty of Lagos should not inhibit the comfort of Lagosians.” The residents further urged the DisCo to take the appropriate steps and rectify the electrical installations before it causes havoc in the community.