Better living for humanity founded on value for human lives lie at the core of truly great economies of the world; while effective planning and monitored execution over continued improvement steps drives great eventual outputs, whether in organizations or governments. Countries all across the world have sought ways, through partnerships, to build great societies for their citizenry. The write-up focuses on a survey-type research to rank countries of the world in order to determine best in quality of life from a tech view point. Moreover, it became evident that at the center of sustained development and innovative processes in these countries, technological expertise was one of the most important attributes the nation can possess. Itemphasized on both skill and knowledge acquisition. Also noteworthy, was the obvious fact that skills developed in technology are often in very high demand, and one area where supply still hasn’t matched the demand in many developing economies. We concluded that Nigeria has a chance at building something out of what we currently have by following the paths of top countries doing amazing work through a deliberate leverage on tech. Technological expertise stood out asone of 10 attributes used to develop the Entrepreneurship sub-ranking in the2021 Best Countries Report. The conversation was premised on a study that surveyed more than 17,000 people from across the globe on a set of 76 country attributes (terms that can be used to describe a country and that are also relevant to the success of a modern nation) were identified. Participants, on the research survey-type work, assessed how closely they associated an attribute with a nation.The calculation culminated into the overall ranking score and the country attributes that were examined are listed below. Scores were allotted by putting weights within each sub–ranking, whichdiffered slightly from previous years, as the values were related with more recent gross domestic product data.Sub-rankings used, weight percentages and underlying attributes considered include: It was observed that a country’s overall score showed the weighted summationof its sub–ranking scores. The sub–ranking and overall scores were rescaled in such a way that the leadcountry in each sub-category got a value of 100, while others scaled as a proportion of the top score. Each country’s scores were then ranked in descending order. Furthermore, for countries to spread prosperity to citizens, governments and organizations must support one another to enable them compete globally in the digital age (the so-called Fourth Industrial Revolution). In conclusion, there are a few things we can learn from the country that stood at the top of entrepreneurship (second sub-ranking), Japan (with a GDP of $5.06 trillion, and population of 126m people), which had over the years remains one of the world’s most literate and technologically advanced counties. Located in East Asia, Japan is composed of four main islands and mostly covered by mountains and heavily wooded areas. The country’s citizenry lead a distinctly urban lifestyle. Some top Japanese tech companies include: SoftBank Group, with a $188.26 b revenue, NTT Docomo with $114.18 b, NTT at $100.76 b, and KDDI at $72.78 b in revenue. Moreover, on a general note, countries are a reflection of how much value they are able to create within their space and for the rest of the world. Those who focused more on delivering value across the globe have prospered way more than those more focused on consumption alone. Japan exported a total of about $696B in 2019, and $660B in 2020 (despite covid-19 pandemic); making it the number 4 exporter in the world. Over afive-year period, reported exports of Japan have changed by $4.98B from $691B in 2014 to $696B in 2019. This numbers definitely could not have been achieved by mere wishes but concerted efforts. Worthy of note, is the fact that Japanese technology trade exports by business enterprises were valued at 3.66 trillion Japanese yen (about 32.2 b USD) in fiscal year 2019, down by 5.4 percent compared to the previous fiscal year. Around 74.1 percent of the export value derived from overseas parent or subsidiary companies. Major export destinations in the measured time period were the United States, China, Thailand, and the United Kingdom.And a lot of these destination countries want consistency with production and superior quality, which meant Japan was able to attain such feat through a dedication to consistent top quality production. Nigeria can definitely glean so much from the Japanese culture that focuses on honoring their families, which culminated into great honor for the country. I remain committed to conversations that further on the foregoing and thank you for your time investment, yours in tech, Olufemi Ariyo. Email: techtalk@freesia.com.ng