Kayode Fayemi, governor of Ekiti, says President Muhammadu Buhari should be commended for the decision he took on the electoral act amendment bill. The electoral bill was transmitted to President Muhammadu Buhari for assent on November 19. The legislation provides for the electronic transmission of election results and the compulsory use of direct primary to pick candidates by all political parties. But Buhari rejected the bill, saying the amendment may open up the electoral system to litigations, adding that adopting direct primary “violates the spirit of democracy”. Fielding questions from state house correspondents on Tuesday after a meeting with Buhari at the presidential villa, Fayemi dismissed speculations that the president succumbed to pressure mounted on him by governors to reject the bill. He said, on the contrary, neither the president nor state governors is scared of direct primaries as the mode of selecting candidates for elections. Fayemi said the governors do not care whether the mode of primaries is direct or indirect, adding that by declining assent, Buhari is standing on the side of the people. “I don’t know what you mean by governors being happy. At least as a governor who has gone through a series of elections, my election to the office during my first term was via a direct primary that took place in all the 177 wards in my state. And my election to my second term in office was via an indirect primary,” Fayemi said. “So, I’ve tasted both. And I can tell you that it really doesn’t matter to any governor whether you have primaries via direct mode or indirect mode. Governors’ concern is that opportunities are given for an inclusive process. And I think that is what Mr. President’s letter has brought out. “Mr. President has not objected to direct primaries, neither has he endorsed indirect primaries. He has only said ‘be fair to all; let all options apply and what you decide should be determined by your own local and peculiar circumstances’. Being mindful of questions of security, finances, and internal democracy. “So, I think we all should commend the courage of Mr. President to stand with the people. And the president, you know, just like me, is not afraid of whatever mode you decide to use. “When I chaired the primaries — the historic primaries that brought him in as a presidential candidate — I was the chair of that primaries in 2014. It was an indirect primary. “But in 2019, when he was coming back, he came back via direct primary. So, Mr. President has also tasted both. And I don’t think he’s somebody to be lectured about the pros and cons of either process.” The governor said what is important is to ensure that whatever mode of primary chosen “provides a process that is as free a manner as possible”. “Direct primaries have their own challenges; indirect primaries have their own challenges. A consensus approach is also not without challenges, but options should be provided,” he added.