Ezrel Tabiowo, special assistant (press) to Senate President Ahmad Lawan, has bagged a honorary doctorate degree in public administration (Honoris Causa) from the Africa Institute for Public Administration (AIPA) in Ghana. AIPA gave the degree in partnership with the London Bridge Business School, UK. The other honorees are Chijioke Nwaozuzu, a professor; Samuel Barko Lar, former general manager of the Nigeria Airways; Lami Onayi Ahmed, director and board member, Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC); Ifeanyi Anthony Ibezi, member of the house of representatives, and Eric Mekwuye, a hospitality specialist. The honorees were also certified as leadership solution strategy experts and inducted fellows of AIPA at the 10th fellowship induction and honorary investiture ceremony. The ceremony was held after a three-day transformational leadership conference organised by the institute in Abuja. Tabiowo has held several leadership positions and is a fellow of the Institute of Management Consultants – Nigeria; fellow of the Institute of Management Specialists, United Kingdom; fellow of the Centre for Public Service Productivity and Development (CeProd); and fellow of the West African Society for Communication and Administration (WASCA). At the event, Ben Nwankwo, chairman of the governing council of the institute, said honorees should be good ambassadors of the organisation. “We are admitting you into the fellowship of Africa’s premier and apex professional Institute in the education and practice of public administration as the 10th class,” he said. “First and seventh classes took place between Accra, London, Dubai, Abuja and Kigali, in a tight curriculum schematics that is a mix of theory and practice. “Our learning partners have graciously consented to further admit a few of the members of the class who have track records of service, achievements, and moral rectitude into the honorary degree of Doctor of Public Administration and Business Administration to strengthen your spark to lead in government, society or business. “By virtue of your fellowship induction and other investiture, you have become alumni of the Institute, our role models and ambassadors. We charge you to show the light that others may follow.”