BY ILEMONA ONOJA Several events and actors have shaped the political landscape of the nation in ways that have made 2021 a pivotal year in the preparation for the 2023 general elections. The nation has grappled with the fall out of the global coronavirus pandemic, massive insecurity ravaging several parts of the country, separatist agendas in the South West and South East and a badly battered economy with poor fundamentals. However, in the midst of these occurrences Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki – popularly called Oloye by his supporters – has stood out as a positive influence in shaping the immediate and future reactions Nigerians are likely to have to these events. What is truly remarkable is how he has exerted this influence unobtrusively, quietly helping to shape the political landscape ahead of what may be the most important elections in Nigeria’s history. His role as the Chairman of the National Reconciliation and Strategy Committee of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) – a body which had other bigwigs like former Senate President Sen. Anyim Pius Anyim; former Governors Ibrahim Dankwambo, Ibrahim Shema and Liyel Imoke as well as former Majority Leader of the House of Representatives – Hon. Mulikat Akande-Adeola – as members has been pivotal in retooling the PDP. Prior to the inauguration of this Committee, the party was beset with internal wranglings, broken into factions in many State and Zonal chapters, and unable to function as a cohesive opposition party. In the course of its activities, the Saraki led Committee was able to achieve remarkable success by ending age old crises in the Borno and Ogun States chapters of the party. The Committee also recorded successes in Lagos, Plateau, Ondo and Osun while making considerable progress in states like Nasarawa, Ekiti and Oyo. These successes resulted in the party successfully completing its congresses at the ward, local government and state levels including in many areas where it was previously considered impossible and gave rise to the successful conduct of the National Convention of the party. Saraki was also very influential in the high-level politicking that preceded the National Convention of the party and resulted in the emergence of the Sen. Iyorchia Ayu led National Working Committee (NWC). His calming influence was instrumental in helping senior party figures navigate through different political interests and arrive at almost unanimous decisions regarding the national officers of the party. Having concluded his involvement at the party level, Saraki has moved on to a more personal issue – his bid to emerge as flagbearer of the party for the 2023 presidential election and, subsequently, to take up the nation’s top job. In late November, he was in Benue State to consult with Governor Samuel Ortom over his ambition. After the private consultations which many sources reveal was well received, his host let the cat out of the bag by announcing Saraki’s intentions to the media. In the time since that consultative visit, stakeholders within and outside the PDP in many states of the North Central region have become more convinced of the possibility of producing a president from the region and have gone on to adopt Saraki as their consensus candidate, making him a top contender for the party’s ticket in next year’s primaries. As 2021 winds down to an end, Saraki has quietly and effectively influenced the political landscape of the country as a result of which he is definitely one to watch in the coming year. Whether he will achieve his objectives remains to be seen. What can immediately be confirmed, though, is that like he has successfully done, Saraki will be a major political actor in the year 2022, God willing. Happy birthday, Oloye as you turn 59 on Sunday. Onoja writes from Abuja