President Muhammadu Buhari will depart Abuja today for the Expo 2020 Dubai in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Femi Adeshina, presidential spokesperson, said this in a statement on Wednesday. The fair, with the theme, “Connecting Minds, Creating the Future”, creates the environment for Nigeria to join over 190 countries to forge true and meaningful partnerships “to build a better future for everyone.” Expo 2020 Dubai, which was delayed by coronavirus last week, kicked off in September. It is the first world fair in the Middle East, expected to last 182 days. On December 2, the Arab nation will celebrate the 50th anniversary of its founding. According to Adesina, Nigeria will be leveraging the opportunity of the conference to showcase Nigeria’s economical achievements in the last six years, encouraging foreign investors to put their money into the country. “The Expo will provide another opportunity for the Nigerian delegation to highlight significant strides in the economy in the last six years as a basis for making the country an important destination for foreign direct investment,” the statement reads. “Aside touring the Nigerian pavilion at the Expo on Friday, Nigeria’s national day, the President will also receive in audience prospective investors as well as meet with his highness, Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, crown prince of Abu Dhabi and deputy supreme commander of the UAE Armed Forces and Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, vice president and prime minister of the UAE and Ruler of the Emirate of Dubai. ”On Saturday, President Buhari will be the Special Guest of Honour at the special Trade and Investment Forum themed: Unveiling Investment Opportunities in Nigeria. “It is put together to mark Nigeria’s presence at the gathering by the Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Investment.” Adesina added that the president will be accompanied by ministers, including Geoffrey Onyeama, minister of foreign affairs; Adeniyi Adebayo, minister of industry, trade, and investment; Zainab Ahmed, minister of finance, budget, and national planning minister; Bashir Magashi, minister of defence; Hadi Sirika, minister of aviation, and Mohammad Abubakar, minister of agriculture and rural development. The president is expected to return on Sunday, December 5, 2021.