The National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) has emerged winner of the best federal institution for its outstanding impact on the realization of human rights in Nigeria. The prestigious award was bestowed on the Agency by the National Human Rights Commission, NHRC, in an award ceremony held on Friday 10th December 2021 at Transcorp Hilton Hotels, Abuja. The award ceremony holds annually on the 10th of December in commemoration of the International Human Rights Day; the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by the United Nations General Assembly. Specifically, the NHRC awards are in three categories; Federal Government Ministries, Departments and Agencies, Governors and Civil Society Organisations that have distinguished themselves in the advancement of human rights in Nigeria. The Chairperson of the National Human Rights Commission, Dr. Salamatu Hussaini Sulaiman said the aim of the Awards was to recognize the efforts of institutions and individuals and encourage them to do more. She disclosed that the commission will increase the number of Award categories in 2022 to take care of human rights defenders and development partners as separate categories. Commenting on the award, the Executive Director/CEO, Dr. Faisal Shuaib expressed gratitude for the recognition of NPHCDA’s efforts. “I want to recognize the council of the National Human Rights Commission because it takes great leadership to envision such Awards that recognize institutions and individuals for the work that they are doing. It is with such a recognition that you also encourage people to continue to do all of those good works that preserve and promote human rights,” Dr. Shuaib said. He also reiterated the Agency’s commitment to improving the health and quality of life of Nigerians. “Access to healthcare is a fundamental human right and over the years we have made considerable efforts at improving this access through the pursuance of our nine mandates. Our utmost aim remains to ensure that every Nigerian is healthy.” The Executive Director dedicated the Award to the management and staff of NPHCDA, saying they are the frontliners when it comes to health service delivery to Nigerians. Other Awardees include the Executive Governor of Borno State, Prof. Babagana Zulum, Nyesom Wike, the Executive Governor of Rivers State.