Five persons, including Umaru Bawan-Allah, district head of Gada in Zamfara state, have been killed following an attack by bandits. Ayuba Elkanah, Zamfara commissioner of police, confirmed the development at a media briefing on Wednesday. According to him, the bandits attacked the community in the early hours of Wednesday, adding that security agencies responded to the attack and rescued 10 other villagers. “Today, at about 0335hrs, armed bandits in large number invaded Gada village in Bungudu LGA where they attacked the house of the district head of Gada, alhaji Umaru, and killed him along with four other villagers and kidnapped some community members,” he said. “Police tactical operatives in collaboration with military and vigilante responded promptly and engaged the assailants in a serious gun battle. The joint tactical teams were able to disperse the hoodlums, and rescued 10 kidnapped victims including a one-year-old baby. “Presently, normalcy has been restored in the affected area and its environs with improved confidence building patrol.” He added that police operatives arrested a “notorious bandit” identified as Sani Mati, also known as Mai-Yanmata. He said Mai-Yanmata was arrested at a village called Koliya while allegedly trying to block the road and kidnap commuters. Elkanah said an AK-47 rifle, three rounds of live ammunition and one motorcycle were recovered from the suspect. “On the 28th December, 2021, at about 0500hrs, police tactical operatives deployed along Zurmi axis while on confidence building patrol acted on intelligence information that led to the arrest of a notorious bandit, named Sani Mati a.k.a. Mai-Yanmata, a 20-year-old who hails from Mayasa village in Zurmi LGA,” Elkanah said. “The suspected bandit, who was arrested while trying to block the road and kidnap innocent commuters at a village called Koliya, earlier belonged to Turji’s camp, but now operates under a notorious bandit kingpin, Kachalla Sani Black, who operates at Zurmi, Shinkafi and Birnin Magaji axis, respectively. “He was arrested with his operational AK-47 rifle, double magazines with three rounds of live ammunition and one Boxer motorcycle. “He is currently undergoing discreet investigation aimed at arresting his partners in crime, before being charged to court for prosecution.”