Simon Ekpa, a self-acclaimed disciple of Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), rose to prominence  in July after he was announced as the lead broadcaster of Radio Biafra. The Finland-based activist was appointed to replace Kanu following the re-arrest of the IPOB leader by the federal government. After some weeks, IPOB announced Ekpa’s disengagement, citing his refusal to sign the rules of engagement of Radio Biafra. “The global family of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) ably led by our great leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, has observed with regrets that Mazi Simon Ekpa whom our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu gave an appointment and duty to start broadcasting on Radio Biafra doesn’t want to follow the laid down rules of operation in Radio Biafra,” Emma Powerful, IPOB’s spokesperson, said in a statement. Nevertheless, he wouldn’t back down. Ekpa has been at loggerheads with some leaders of IPOB. Most importantly, he keeps magnifying the activities of the secessionist group through his social media platforms. BRIEF PROFILE According to publicly available records, Ekpa was born on March 21, 1985. He hails from Ohaukwu LGA, Ebonyi state. Aside from being a controversial agitator, he also identifies himself as a human rights activist, Finnish politician, lawyer and CEO of Ekpa & Co Oy, an organisation that provides legal services in immigration matters and asylum issues in Finland. According to his LinkedIn profile, he holds a degree in law from the Aberystwyth University, Wales. He also claims to be a doctoral student at the Academy of Business Management in Switzerland, also known as the Open University of Switzerland. The LinkedIn profile further states that he was a post-graduate student instructor at the department of law and criminology. He listed membership of two political positions in Finland. He claims to be a member of the transportation board at Lahti, Finland and vice-chairman for building/construction works and environment in the same region. In October, he announced on Facebook that his candidacy for the regional government election under the National Coalition Party Kokoomus, a political party in Finland, has been approved. Some online reports also profiled Ekpa as a personnel of the Finland military reserve and he has also boasted that his military training is “world-class”. He is married with a child. FROM REPRESENTING NIGERIA AT WORLD STAGE TO CANVASSING SECESSION Ekpa has represented Nigeria as a track and field athlete at different competitions, including winning a medal while adorning the colours of the country. According to his profile on the official website  of the World Athletics, he won a silver medal while representing Nigeria at the 2003 African Junior Athletics Championships in Cameroon. He had also represented Nigeria in long jump, triple jump, 100 meters and 60 meters events in different competitions. In September, the Biafra agitator denounced Nigeria and vowed to return the medal he won for the country at the 2003 African Junior Athletics Championships. “I am now putting everything I have to the disintegration of Nigeria and restoration of Biafra as that is the only way to move forward, anything outside this, don’t bring my name,” he said. “Finally, I will be returning every award given to me in Nigeria by Nigeria state or organisation within Nigeria acting in the capacity of representing Nigeria, including the medal given to me by Nigeria will be returned to the Ministry of Sports Abuja in the nearest future.” AN EKPA OF CONTROVERSIES AND FAKE NEWS Ekpa soliciting donations for his agitation Aside from using his social media pages for agitations, he also deploys the platforms to spark controversies and disseminate fake news. On several occasions, Ekpa’s social media posts were flagged as fake news by fact-checkers and authorities. In December 2019, the acclaimed Finland-based lawyer shared a video showing men who appeared to be military personnel being killed by terrorists. He also accompanied the video with a commentary where he asked residents of the south-east region not to join the Nigerian military or resign if they are already in the system. In its reaction, the Nigerian army said the video clip reportedly portraying the killing of Nigerian soldiers is fake. HumAngle, in a fact-check article, said there is no evidence that the video was recorded in Nigeria. OCTOBER 16 — THE REPENTANT BOKO HARAM FALSE POST On October 16, Ekpa shared a post that claimed the customs officer in a viral video was a “repentant Boko Haram member”. TheCable fact-check desk examined the claim and discovered it was false. Without providing evidence, the activist dismissed the fact-check, saying the platform lied. OCTOBER 30 — THE ABBA KYARI FAKE NEWS On October 30, Ekpa made a post that Abba Kyari, the suspended deputy commissioner of police, has been reinstated by the Nigeria Police Force, following the indictment of the US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). Ekpa also claimed that Kyari had visited a shrine in the Benin Republic and Togo for subsequent mobilisation for the November 6 Anambra governorship election. Findings by TheCable fact-check desk showed there was no sufficient evidence to back the misleading claim. Through his social media pages, the Finland-based activist also solicits funds for the activities of the Eastern Security Network (ESN), IPOB’s security outfit. 