Sunday Dare, minister of youth and sports, says the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) has never been more relevant. Speaking on Saturday at the premiere of an NYSC-produced movie entitled ‘A Call to Service’, the minister said the scheme has come to stay. “The timing of this movie could not have been better after weeks and months of debates about whether the NYSC is relevant or not and whether the scheme should be scrapped or should continue,” he said. “The answer to the critics, to the anti-NYSC is in the premiere of this movie. This movie needs to travel and hit every viewing platform across this country and in the diaspora; it must go viral. “The message must go out strong and clear, that the NYSC has come to stay. The scheme is more relevant now than it has ever been before.” Dare said the release of the movie would assist the ministry with its plans in ensuring that the NYSC Trust Fund is created. “I believe that before the end of the first quarter of next year when we have done all that is necessary, I will be able to present a memo to the (federal executive) council for the establishment of an NYSC Trust Fund,” he said. Shuaibu Ibrahim, NYSC director-general, said the movie was produced to further underscore the relevance of the scheme and to educate graduates that national service is mandatory. “You are all aware that NYSC has for long become a household name in Nigeria owing to its invaluable contributions to national unity and development,” he said. “In particular, its role in the training and mentoring of the youth in preparation for their future leadership responsibilities have been appreciated by all and sundry. “The movie we are unveiling today is part of the innovative approaches of the present management to engendering a greater appreciation of the relevance of the scheme. “It is an advocacy and sensitisation tool that is also expected to influence a greater commitment of stakeholders to their roles and responsibilities as spelled out in the NYSC Act Cap N84 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004 and the NYSC Bye-Laws.”