Ibraheem Abdullateef, a representative of Kwara central in the Nigerian Youth Parliament (NYP), has asked political parties to reduce the fees of their nomination forms by 60 percent for youths. Abdullateef said the cost of nomination forms of the two major political parties in the country is “uneconomical and undemocratic”. The youth representative, in a statement on Sunday, said the “crazy” cost of the forms serves as a “stumbling block” to the inclusion of youths in politics. On the electoral act amendment bill, Abdullateef asked President Muhammadu Buhari and the national assembly to find a “common ground” in ensuring that the bill becomes a law. “We have seen in the past few months a great deal of debate over the amendment of the electoral act,” he said. “Regardless of one’s political leaning, it is the most patriotic thing to support to strengthen our democracy. “I urge President Muhammadu Buhari and the national assembly to find a common ground in bringing the bill to life urgently. “However, there is one more thing for young Nigerians to make a priority as we move closer to the 2023 general elections: the crazy fees for nomination forms. “It is uneconomical, undemocratic, a stumbling block to the national agenda for inclusion and peace. This must form a strong discussion point for the political parties, media, CSOs, and other stakeholders. “There should be reductions of these fees for aspirants under 35 years below from bottom office to the top. It should be reviewed now. No party must retain those crazy tables from 2019. “For clarity, both the APC and PDP constitution gives women a 50% cut, but they continue to alienate the youths. Youths, especially, should get at least a 60% reduction. It is time to put real action to the agenda of youth inclusion in politics and leadership.” During the 2019 elections, the All Progressives Congress (APC) charged N2.5 million for its expression of interest form and N20 million as the nomination form fee for the governorship position. It charged N5 million for expression of interest and N40 million for the nomination form for the presidential slot. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) charged N1 million for the expression of interest form and N20 million for the governorship position. For the presidential position, PDP charged N2 million for the interest form and N10 million for the nomination form.