Less than a week after the resumption of flights, Emirates Airline has announced the suspension of operations between Nigeria and Dubai. In a travel notice on its website on Friday evening, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) flag carrier said the suspension will start on Monday until when Nigeria and the Arab nation “solve the ongoing issue”. On Thursday, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) reduced Emirates’ flight operations into the country. The aviation authority had said despite granting Emirates airline winter flight schedule to operate 21 weekly passenger flights to Nigeria, the UAE General Civil Aviation Authority (GCAA) denied Air Peace equal rights to Sharjah international airport in UAE. In its statement, Emirates said it is committed to its operations in Nigeria and will be ready to reinstate services once UAE and Nigerian authorities work on a solution to the ongoing issue. “With the recently imposed directive limiting Emirates to operate one flight per week to Nigeria via Abuja, Emirates will be suspending its flights between Nigeria and Dubai from 13 December 2021, until the UAE and Nigerian authorities work on a solution to the ongoing issue,” the notice reads. “The last flights to operate on 12 December 2021are EK 783/784 to/from Lagos and EK 785/786 to/from Abuja. “Customers holding tickets with the final destinations Lagos and Abuja will not be accepted at the point of origin. “Affected customers do not need to call us immediately for rebooking. Customers can simply hold on to their Emirates ticket and when flights resume, get in touch with their travel agent or booking office to make new travel plans. “Emirates regrets any inconvenience caused. Emirates is committed to its operations in Nigeria, and we stand ready to reinstate services once restrictions are lifted by the Nigerian authorities, ensuring travellers have more choice and access to trade and tourism opportunities in Dubai and beyond to our network of over 120 destinations.” Last Sunday, Emirates resumed flight operations to Nigeria after almost ten months of diplomatic discussions around COVID-19 travel requirements for Nigerian passengers. With the new issue bordering on Bilateral Air Services Agreement (BASA), Nigeria and UAE authorities have resumed another round of diplomatic row that will see Emirates and Air Peace losing huge revenue.