On October 12, 2020, Ikechukwu Iloamuzor, a 55-year-old driver, was killed by a stray bullet during the #EndSARS protest at Surulere area of Lagos state. On the day of the incident, the deceased was stuck in traffic with Sam Okafor, his employer, around stadium bus-stop, Ojuelegba, where protesters had gathered. He had stepped out of the car briefly, but not long afterwards, he was lying on the floor and covered in blood after a bullet hit him on the neck. A banner hangs at the home of late Iloamuzor in Enugu On October 2020, youths took to the streets in parts of the country to protest against police brutality, especially involving officers of the now-disbanded special anti-robbery squad (SARS). The protest which started on a peaceful note and was tagged #EndSARS was later hijacked by hoodlums, leading to the destruction of private and public properties. Iloamuzor was among those killed during the protests. Iloamuzor’s casket before burial From filing a case at the high court to the rites of widowhood, TheCable documented the journey of Ngozi after her husband breathed his last in October 2020. NGOZI ILOAMUZOR — THE WIDOW WHO DEFIED ODDS TO FIGHT FOR JUSTICE Iloamuzor’s widow’s hair being shaved by her mother in-law to signify the end of mourning period Ngozi was devastated when she got the news that her husband has been shot during the #EndSARS protest. Autopsy conducted at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) revealed that the deceased died of exsanguination due to the eruption of his right jugular vein by a penetrating missile. Amid the sorrow of her unexpected entry into widowhood, her focus was to get justice for her husband. Iloamuzor’s widow at the Lagos state judicial panel A few days after the incident, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, governor of Lagos, visited the family, and promised that his government would provide support. Within the one year between her husband’s death and following up with the case presented before the Lagos judicial panel of enquiry, TheCable also chronicled her experiences during the funeral rites, which included shaving her head. After a series of appearances, the judicial panel, on October 18, 2021, found Ngozi’s petition meritorious, and for the unlawful killing of Ikechukwu Iloamuzor by the police, the sum of N10 million was awarded as compensation. 